## [Removing Stars From a String](https://leetcode.com/problems/removing-stars-from-a-string)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/removing-stars-from-a-string/ <br>
Complexity: Easy <br>
Tags: stack, String <br>


# Question

You are given a string `s`, which contains stars *.

In one operation, you can:
Choose a star in s.
Remove the closest non-star character to its left, as well as remove the star itself.
Return the string after all stars have been removed.


# Examples

Example 1:

Input: s = "leet**cod*e"
Output: "lecoe"
Explanation: Performing the removals from left to right:
- The closest character to the 1st star is 't' in "leet**cod*e". s becomes "lee*cod*e".
- The closest character to the 2nd star is 'e' in "lee*cod*e". s becomes "lecod*e".
- The closest character to the 3rd star is 'd' in "lecod*e". s becomes "lecoe".
There are no more stars, so we return "lecoe".

Example 2:

Input: s = "erase*****"
Output: ""
Explanation: The entire string is removed, so we return an empty string.

## Explanation

process the given string s from left to right, keeping track of the characters that would remain after each star operation. To implement this approach efficiently, we can use a stack data structure, which provides an easy way to remove the last character added when we encounter a star.

## Algorithm

1. Initialize an empty list ans which will function as a stack to hold the characters that would remain in the string.
2. Iterate over each character c in the string s.
3. If the current character c is a star (*), it indicates that we need to remove the character nearest to its left. In stack terms, this means we need to pop the last element from the stack.
4. If the current character c is not a star, we should add this character to the stack, as it is (for now) a part of the resulting string.
5. After we finish iterating through the string s, the stack contains all the characters that survived the star operations.
6. We then join the characters in the stack to form the final string, which is the string after all stars and their adjacent left characters have been removed.
7. Return the final string as a result.


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    string removeStars(string s) {
        string ans;
        for (char c : s) {
            if (c == '*') {
                ans.pop_back();
            } else {
                ans.push_back(c);
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def removeStars(self, s: str) -> str:
    ans = []
    for c in s:
      if c == '*':
        ans.pop()
      else:
        ans.append(c)
    return ''.join(ans)
```
Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete string. <br>
Space complexity: O(n) -> we are creating any extra space to store the string. 	
