## [Asteroid Collision](https://leetcode.com/problems/asteroid-collision/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/asteroid-collision/ <br>
Complexity: Easy <br>
Tags: Arrays <br>


# Question

We are given an array asteroids of integers representing asteroids in a row.

For each asteroid, the absolute value represents its size, and the sign represents its direction (positive meaning right, negative meaning left). Each asteroid moves at the same speed.

Find out the state of the asteroids after all collisions. If two asteroids meet, the smaller one will explode. If both are the same size, both will explode. Two asteroids moving in the same direction will never meet.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: asteroids = [5,10,-5]
Output: [5,10]
Explanation: The 10 and -5 collide resulting in 10. The 5 and 10 never collide.

Example 2:

Input: asteroids = [8,-8]
Output: []
Explanation: The 8 and -8 collide exploding each other.

Example 3:

Input: asteroids = [10,2,-5]
Output: [10]
Explanation: The 2 and -5 collide resulting in -5. The 10 and -5 collide resulting in 10.

## Explanation

To solve this problem, we use a stack data structure that will help us manage the asteroid collisions efficiently. The stack is chosen because collisions affect the asteroids in a last-in, first-out manner: the most recently moving right asteroid can collide with the newly encountered left-moving one.

## Algorithm

1. If we encounter an asteroid moving to the right (x > 0), it won't collide with any of the previous asteroids. We add (push) this asteroid to the stack, as it could collide with a future left-moving asteroid.
2. When an asteroid moving to the left (x < 0) is found, we need to check if it will collide with any of the right-moving asteroids already in the stack.
3. If a collision is possible (the stack is not empty and the top asteroid in the stack is a positive number, meaning it is moving right), and the top asteroid in the stack is smaller than the current one (absolute size comparison), the top asteroid will explode (be removed by pop from the stack).
4. If the top asteroid in the stack has the same size (but opposite direction) as the current one, they both explode (we pop the top of the stack without adding the current one).
5. If the stack is empty or contains only asteroids moving to the left, it means there will be no collision for the current asteroid; therefore, we can safely add (push) the current asteroid to the stack.


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> asteroidCollision(vector<int>& asteroids) {
        // We have to return vector use a vector like a stack.
        vector<int> stk;
        for (int x : asteroids) {
            if (x > 0) {
                stk.push_back(x);
            } else {
                while (stk.size() && stk.back() > 0 && stk.back() < -x) {
                    stk.pop_back();
                }
                if (stk.size() && stk.back() == -x) {
                    stk.pop_back();
                } else if (stk.empty() || stk.back() < 0) {
                    stk.push_back(x);
                }
            }
        }
        return stk;        
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def asteroidCollision(self, asteroids: list[int]) -> list[int]:
    stack = []

    for a in asteroids:
      if a > 0:
        stack.append(a)
      else:  # a < 0
        # Destroy the previous positive one(s).
        while stack and stack[-1] > 0 and stack[-1] < -a:
          stack.pop()
        if not stack or stack[-1] < 0:
          stack.append(a)
        elif stack[-1] == -a:
          stack.pop()  # Both asteroids explode.
        else:  # stack[-1] > the current asteroid.
          pass  # Destroy the current asteroid, so do nothing.

    return stack
```
Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete array. <br>
Space complexity: O(n) -> we are creating extra space. 	
