## [Move Zeroes](https://leetcode.com/problems/move-zeroes/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/move-zeroes/description/
Complexity: Easy 
Tags: Arrays, Two Pointers


# Question

Given an integer array nums, move all 0's to the end of it while maintaining the relative order of the non-zero elements.

Note that you must do this in-place without making a copy of the array.


# Examples

    Example 1:

    Input: nums = [0,1,0,3,12]
    Output: [1,3,12,0,0]

    Example 2:

    Input: nums = [0]
    Output: [0]

## Explanation

The goal is to iterate through the array and process elements one by one, swapping non-zero elements towards the front while effectively moving zero elements towards the end.

We initialize a pointer i at the position just before the start of the array (i.e., i = -1). This pointer will keep track of the position to place the next non-zero element.

As we iterate over the elements of the array with another pointer j, we look for non-zero elements. When we encounter a non-zero element (x), we increment the pointer i, indicating that we have found another non-zero element. Then we swap the elements at indices i and j. This action has two consequences:
    It moves the non-zero element x to the front of the array at the next available position.
    It moves the zero (if i and j are not the same) to the position j.

## Algorithm

1. Start by initializing a pointer called count to 0. This pointer will serve as a marker for the count of non-zero elements.
2. Begin iterating through the array with a for loop, using another pointer i to keep track of the current index in the array. 
3. For each element x in the array, check if it is a non-zero. 
4. If a non-zero element is encountered, place it at count position and increment it.
5. Once you are done with the array, set remaining array positions to zero.


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    // time complexity => O(n)
    // Space complexity => O(1)
    void moveZeroes(vector<int>& nums) {
        int count = 0;  // Count of non-zero elements

        // Traverse the vector. If the element is non-zero,
        // replace the element at index 'count' with this element
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.size(); i++) {
            if (nums[i] != 0) {
                nums[count++] = nums[i]; // Increment count
            }
        }

        // Now all non-zero elements have been shifted to
        // the front. Make all elements 0 from count to end.
        while (count < nums.size()) {
            nums[count++] = 0;
        }
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def moveZeroes(self, nums: list[int]) -> None:
    j = 0
    for num in nums:
      if num != 0:
        nums[j] = num
        j += 1

    for i in range(j, len(nums)):
      nums[i] = 0
```

Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete array from both ends.
Space complexity: O(1) -> we are not creating any extra space. 	
