## [Container With Most Water](https://leetcode.com/problems/container-with-most-water/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/container-with-most-water/description/
Complexity: Medium 
Tags: Arrays, Two Pointers, Greedy Algorithm


# Question

You are given an integer array height of length n. There are n vertical lines drawn such that the two endpoints of the ith line are (i, 0) and (i, height[i]).

Find two lines that together with the x-axis form a container, such that the container contains the most water.

Return the maximum amount of water a container can store.

Notice that you may not slant the container.


# Examples

Example 1:

Input: height = [1,8,6,2,5,4,8,3,7]
Output: 49
Explanation: The above vertical lines are represented by array [1,8,6,2,5,4,8,3,7]. In this case, the max area of water (blue section) the container can contain is 49.

Example 2:

Input: height = [1,1]
Output: 1

## Explanation

we use a two-pointer technique. We place one pointer at the beginning of the array and the other at the end, and these pointers represent the potential container boundaries. At each step, the trapped water is determined by the distance between the pointers (which is the container's width) and the height of the smaller line (since the water level can't be higher than the smaller of the two boundaries). This is the area that could potentially be the maximum.



## Algorithm

1. Initialize two pointers: i is set to the start of the array (0), and j is set to the end of the array (len(height) - 1). 
2. Initialize a variable ans to keep track of the maximum area discovered so far. Initially, ans is set to 0. 
3. Enter a loop that continues as long as i is less than j. This loop allows us to explore all possible combinations of lines from i to j to maximize the area.
4. Inside the loop, calculate the area trapped between the lines at pointers i and j using the formula: area = (j - i) * min(height[i], height[j]). This calculates the width of the container (j - i) and multiplies it by the height, which is the smaller of the two heights at height[i] and height[j]. 
5. Update ans with the maximum of its current value and the calculated area. ans = max(ans, area) ensures that ans holds the highest value of trapped water area at each step.
6. Determine which pointer to move. We need to move the pointer corresponding to the shorter line since this is the limiting factor for the height of the trapped water. 
7. Continue looping until the pointers meet. At this point, ans would have the maximum area that can be trapped between any two lines.


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    int maxArea(vector<int>& height) {
    
        int ans = 0;
        int l = 0;
        int r = height.size() - 1;

        while (l < r) {
            const int minHeight = min(height[l], height[r]);
            ans = max(ans, minHeight * (r - l));
            if (height[l] < height[r])
                ++l;
            else
            --r;
        }

        return ans;
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def maxArea(self, height: list[int]) -> int:
    ans = 0
    l = 0
    r = len(height) - 1

    while l < r:
      minHeight = min(height[l], height[r])
      ans = max(ans, minHeight * (r - l))
      if height[l] < height[r]:
        l += 1
      else:
        r -= 1

    return ans
```
Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete array from both ends.
Space complexity: O(1) -> we are not creating any extra space. 	
