## [Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock with Transaction Fee](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-with-transaction-fee/description)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-with-transaction-fee/description <br>
Complexity: Medium <br>
Tags: Arrays, DP <br>


# Question

You are given an array prices where `prices[i]` is the price of a given stock on the ith day, and an integer fee representing a transaction fee.

Find the `maximum profit` you can achieve. You may complete as many transactions as you like, but you need to pay the transaction fee for each transaction.

Note:
You may not engage in multiple transactions simultaneously (i.e., you must sell the stock before you buy again).
The transaction fee is only charged once for each stock purchase and sale.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: prices = [1,3,2,8,4,9], fee = 2
Output: 8
Explanation: The maximum profit can be achieved by:
- Buying at prices[0] = 1
- Selling at prices[3] = 8
- Buying at prices[4] = 4
- Selling at prices[5] = 9
The total profit is ((8 - 1) - 2) + ((9 - 4) - 2) = 8.

Example 2:

Input: prices = [1,3,7,5,10,3], fee = 3
Output: 6

## Explanation

The solution uses dynamic programming to optimize the process of finding the maximum profit. It builds up the solution by breaking the problem down into smaller subproblems and storing their results to avoid re-computation. The reference solution approaches give us two perspectives on the problem: memoization (top-down approach) and tabulation (bottom-up approach).

## Algorithm

TBD

## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
 public:
  int maxProfit(vector<int>& prices, int fee) {
    int sell = 0;
    int hold = INT_MIN;

    for (const int price : prices) {
      sell = max(sell, hold + price);
      hold = max(hold, sell - price - fee);
    }

    return sell;
  }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def maxProfit(self, prices: list[int], fee: int) -> int:
    sell = 0
    hold = -math.inf

    for price in prices:
      sell = max(sell, hold + price)
      hold = max(hold, sell - price - fee)

    return sell
```	
