## [Daily Temperatures](https://leetcode.com/problems/daily-temperatures/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/daily-temperatures/ <br>
Complexity: Easy <br>
Tags: Arrays, Stack, Monotonic Stack <br>


# Question

Given an array of integers temperatures represents the daily temperatures, return an array answer such that answer[i] is the number of days you have to wait after the ith day to get a warmer temperature. If there is no future day for which this is possible, keep answer[i] == 0 instead.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: temperatures = [73,74,75,71,69,72,76,73]
Output: [1,1,4,2,1,1,0,0]

Example 2:

Input: temperatures = [30,40,50,60]
Output: [1,1,1,0]

Example 3:

Input: temperatures = [30,60,90]
Output: [1,1,0]

## Explanation

Take two pointers, both at the start of the array, find the first occurance of non-zero and replace it with first pointer element. 
increment both the pointers, once you are reach end of array with one pointer, put all zeroes.

## Algorithm

1. Initialize an answer array ans with the same length as the temperatures array, filled with zeros. This array will hold the final number of days one has to wait for a warmer temperature.

2. Create an empty stack stk that will store indices of the temperatures array.

3. Iterate through the temperatures array using an index i and temperature t.

    While there are indices on the stack and the current temperature t is greater than the temperature at the top index of the stack (i.e., temperatures[stk[-1]] < t), pop the index j from the top of the stack. This indicates that we have found a warmer day for the day at index j.

    Calculate the number of days waited for index j by subtracting j from the current index i (i.e., ans[j] = i - j). This gives us the number of days that had to pass to reach a warmer temperature.

    Continue popping from the stack and updating the ans array until the stack is empty or a day with a lower temperature is found.

5. If the current day's temperature isn't higher than the temperature at the top index of the stack, or if the stack is empty, push the current index i onto the stack. This signifies that we are still looking for a future warmer temperature for this day.

6. Once we exit the loop, we have filled out the ans array with the number of days to wait for a warmer temperature after each day. In cases where we do not find a warmer temperature, the default value of 0 remains.


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> dailyTemperatures(vector<int>& temperatures) {
        int n = temperatures.size();
        vector<int> ans(n);
        stack<int> stk;
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            while (!stk.empty() && temperatures[stk.top()] < temperatures[i]) {
                ans[stk.top()] = i - stk.top();
                stk.pop();
            }
            stk.push(i);
        }
        return ans;       
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
    def dailyTemperatures(self, temperatures: List[int]) -> List[int]:
        
        answer = [0] * len(temperatures)
        stack = []

        # Enumerate over the list of temperatures
        for index, current_temp in enumerate(temperatures):
            # Loop through the stack as long as it's not empty and the current temperature
            # is greater than the temperature at the index of the last element in the stack
            while stack and temperatures[stack[-1]] < current_temp:
                # Pop the index of the temperature that is less than the current temperature
                previous_index = stack.pop()
                # Calculate the number of days between the previous and current temperature
                # and update the answer list
                answer[previous_index] = index - previous_index
          
            stack.append(index)
        return answer
```

Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete array. <br>
Space complexity: O(n) -> we are creating any extra space. 	
