## [Online Stock Span](https://leetcode.com/problems/online-stock-span/description/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/online-stock-span/description/ <br>
Complexity: Medium <br>
Tags: Arrays, Stack <br>


# Question

Design an algorithm that collects daily price quotes for some stock and returns the span of that stock's price for the current day.

The span of the stock's price in one day is the maximum number of consecutive days (starting from that day and going backward) for which the stock price was less than or equal to the price of that day.

For example, if the prices of the stock in the last four days is [7,2,1,2] and the price of the stock today is 2, then the span of today is 4 because starting from today, the price of the stock was less than or equal 2 for 4 consecutive days.
Also, if the prices of the stock in the last four days is [7,34,1,2] and the price of the stock today is 8, then the span of today is 3 because starting from today, the price of the stock was less than or equal 8 for 3 consecutive days.
Implement the StockSpanner class:

StockSpanner() Initializes the object of the class.
int next(int price) Returns the span of the stock's price given that today's price is price.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input
["StockSpanner", "next", "next", "next", "next", "next", "next", "next"]
[[], [100], [80], [60], [70], [60], [75], [85]]
Output
[null, 1, 1, 1, 2, 1, 4, 6]

Explanation
StockSpanner stockSpanner = new StockSpanner();
stockSpanner.next(100); // return 1
stockSpanner.next(80);  // return 1
stockSpanner.next(60);  // return 1
stockSpanner.next(70);  // return 2
stockSpanner.next(60);  // return 1
stockSpanner.next(75);  // return 4, because the last 4 prices (including today's price of 75) were less than or equal to today's price.
stockSpanner.next(85);  // return 6

## Explanation

The stack is maintained in a way that the prices are monotonically decreasing from the bottom to the top. This means that when we consider a new stock price, we can repeatedly compare it with the elements from the top of the stack. 
If the new stock price is higher than the price at the top of the stack, we pop the stack and add the span (cnt) of that popped price to a running count. This process continues until we find a price in the stack that is greater than the current price or the stack becomes empty.

## Algorithm

1. When next(price) is called, we set a variable cnt to 1. This cnt will accumulate the span of days for the current price.
2. We then enter a loop that keeps running as long as there is an element in the stack and the top element's price is less than or equal to the current price.
3. Inside the loop, we pop the top element from the stack and add its span (second element of the pair) to cnt.
4. After breaking out of the loop (either by finding a larger price or emptying the stack), we push the current price and accumulated span (cnt) as a pair onto the stack.
5. The next function then returns the accumulated cnt, which represents the span of the stock price for the given day.


## Solution in cpp
```
class StockSpanner {
public:
    StockSpanner() {
    }

    int next(int price) {
        int cnt = 1;
        while (!stk.empty() && stk.top().first <= price) {
            cnt += stk.top().second;
            stk.pop();
        }
        stk.emplace(price, cnt);
        return cnt;
    }

private:
    stack<pair<int, int>> stk;
};

/**
 * Your StockSpanner object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * StockSpanner* obj = new StockSpanner();
 * int param_1 = obj->next(price);
 */
```

## Solution in Python
```
class StockSpanner:
  def __init__(self):
    self.stack = []  # (price, span)

  def next(self, price: int) -> int:
    span = 1
    while self.stack and self.stack[-1][0] <= price:
      span += self.stack.pop()[1]
    self.stack.append((price, span))
    return span
```

Time Complexity: O(1) -> Constant time. <br>
Space complexity: O(n) -> creating an additional space for stack.
