## [Guess Number Higher or Lower](https://leetcode.com/problems/guess-number-higher-or-lower/)

Problem link : https://leetcode.com/problems/guess-number-higher-or-lower/ <br>
Complexity: Easy <br>
Tags: Binary Search, Arrays <br>


# Question

We are playing the Guess Game. The game is as follows:
I pick a number from 1 to n. You have to guess which number I picked.

Every time you guess wrong, I will tell you whether the number I picked is higher or lower than your guess.

You call a pre-defined API int guess(int num), which returns three possible results:

-1: Your guess is higher than the number I picked (i.e. num > pick).
1: Your guess is lower than the number I picked (i.e. num < pick).
0: your guess is equal to the number I picked (i.e. num == pick).
Return the number that I picked.
 
# Examples

Example 1:

Input: n = 10, pick = 6
Output: 6

Example 2:

Input: n = 1, pick = 1
Output: 1

Example 3:

Input: n = 2, pick = 1
Output: 1

## Explanation

This is a classic binary search problem. We need to guess(search) the number between 1 to n. 

## Algorithm

1. Take two boundaries, low and high, set each to the lower and higher boundary level.
2. Calculate the middle of the boundaries. 
While (left < right>)
3. If mid is greater than guess number, that means, result is left side of the array, make the right as mid. 
4. If mid is less than guess number, that means result is right side of the array, make the left as mid + 1.
5. If mid is equal to guess number, return mid. 
If we are out of loop, then number is not found.

link: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/binary-search/

## Solution in cpp
```
/** 
 * Forward declaration of guess API.
 * @param  num   your guess
 * @return 	     -1 if num is higher than the picked number
 *			      1 if num is lower than the picked number
 *               otherwise return 0
 * int guess(int num);
 */

class Solution {
public:
    int guessNumber(int n) {
        int left = 1, right = n;
        while (left < right) {
            // to prevent overflow.
            int mid = left + ((right - left) / 2);
            if (guess(mid) <= 0) {
                right = mid;
            } else {
                left = mid + 1;
            }
        }
        return left;
        
    }
};
```
Time Complexity: O(logn) -> looping through the array by dividing the input set into half. <br>
Space complexity: O(1) -> we are not creating any extra space. 	
