## [Successful Pairs of Spells and Potions](https://leetcode.com/problems/successful-pairs-of-spells-and-potions/)

Problem link : https://leetcode.com/problems/successful-pairs-of-spells-and-potions <br>
Complexity: Easy <br>
Tags: Binary Search, Arrays <br> 


# Question

You are given two positive integer arrays spells and potions, of length `n` and `m` respectively, where `spells[i]` represents the strength of the ith spell and `potions[j]` represents the strength of the jth potion.

You are also given an integer success. A spell and potion pair is considered successful if the product of their strengths is at least success.

Return an integer array pairs of length n where pairs[i] is the number of potions that will form a successful pair with the ith spell.
 
# Examples

Example 1:

Input: spells = [5,1,3], potions = [1,2,3,4,5], success = 7
Output: [4,0,3]
Explanation:
- 0th spell: 5 * [1,2,3,4,5] = [5,10,15,20,25]. 4 pairs are successful.
- 1st spell: 1 * [1,2,3,4,5] = [1,2,3,4,5]. 0 pairs are successful.
- 2nd spell: 3 * [1,2,3,4,5] = [3,6,9,12,15]. 3 pairs are successful.
Thus, [4,0,3] is returned.

Example 2:

Input: spells = [3,1,2], potions = [8,5,8], success = 16
Output: [2,0,2]
Explanation:
- 0th spell: 3 * [8,5,8] = [24,15,24]. 2 pairs are successful.
- 1st spell: 1 * [8,5,8] = [8,5,8]. 0 pairs are successful. 
- 2nd spell: 2 * [8,5,8] = [16,10,16]. 2 pairs are successful. 
Thus, [2,0,2] is returned.

## Explanation

First sorting the potions array, we can take advantage of binary search to quickly find the number of successful potions for each spell. Binary search operates by repeatedly dividing the search interval in half, which is much faster than scanning every element.

Once the potions array is sorted, for each spell, we want to find the position where the potion strength is just enough or more to meet the success target when paired with the spell. We need to find the smallest potion that, when multiplied by the spell's strength, equals or exceeds the success threshold. All potions to the right in the sorted array are guaranteed to also form successful pairs because they are equal or stronger.

The solution leverages the bisect_left function from Python's bisect module, which uses binary search to find the insertion point for a given element to maintain sorted order. In this context, it finds the first index in potions where the potion strength is sufficient for the success criteria with a given spell. We then subtract this index from the total number of potions (m) to get the count of successful potions for that spell.

For each spell in spells, we apply this logic and generate the final result array.

## Algorithm

1. Sorting the Potions: Begin by sorting the potions array. 
2. Using Binary Search: For each spell's strength value, we apply a binary search to determine the number of potions that, when multiplied by this spell's strength, will at least be equal to the success value. 
3. Calculating Successful Pairs:
    We use the bisect_left function which finds the index at which we could insert the value success / spell_strength into potions to maintain sorted order.
    The value we are searching for is calculated by success / spell_strength because we want to find the potion strength that, at the minimum, when multiplied by the spell's strength, is equal to success.
    Since potions is sorted, every potion at and beyond the index returned by bisect_left would result in a successful pair when combined with the current spell.
4. Storing Results:
    For each spell, we calculate m - index to find out the number of successful potions, where m is the total number of potions and index is the position returned by bisect_left.
    This operation gives us the count because all elements from the position index to the end of the potions array will be successful pairs due to the sorted property of the array.
5. Generating the Output: Finally, we return a list comprehension that iterates over every spell in spells, applies the above logic using bisect_left, and calculates the number of successful pairs for that spell.

## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> successfulPairs(vector<int>& spells, vector<int>& potions, long long success) {
        sort(potions.begin(), potions.end());
        vector<int> ans;
        int m = potions.size();
        for (int& v : spells) {
            // Find the first potion that, when multiplied with the spell,
            // is greater than or equal to the success threshold.
            // We use 1.0 to cast success to double for correct division.
            int i = lower_bound(potions.begin(), potions.end(), success * 1.0 / v) - potions.begin();
            ans.push_back(m - i);
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```


## Solution in Python
```
from bisect import bisect_left
from typing import List

class Solution:
    def successful_pairs(self, spells: List[int], potions: List[int], success: int) -> List[int]:
        """
        Find the number of potions for each spell that when combined 
        result in a product equal to or greater than the success threshold.
      
        Args:
        spells: List of integers representing the strength of spells.
        potions: List of integers representing the volume of potions.
        success: An integer representing the minimum success threshold for a spell-potion combination.
      
        Returns:
        List containing the count of successful potion combinations for each spell.
        """
        # Sort the potions list in ascending order for binary searching
        potions.sort()
      
        # Length of the potions list
        num_potions = len(potions)
      
        # Using list comprehension to generate the list of counts for successful combinations
        # For each spell strength 'spell_strength' in 'spells', we find the index of the first potion
        # in the sorted 'potions' list that meets or exceeds the 'success' threshold when combined with the spell.
        # The count of successful pairings for each spell is then the total number of potions
        # minus this index, giving the number of potions that meet or exceed the product threshold.
        return [num_potions - bisect_left(potions, success / spell_strength) for spell_strength in spells]
```

Time Complexity: O(n log n + s log n) <br>
Space Complexity: O(s) <br>