## [Find Peak Element](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-peak-element/description)

Problem link : https://leetcode.com/problems/find-peak-element/description <br>
Complexity: Easy  <br>
Tags: Arrays, Binary Search <br>


# Question

A peak element is an element that is strictly greater than its neighbors.

Given a 0-indexed integer array nums, find a peak element, and return its index. If the array contains multiple peaks, return the index to any of the peaks.

You may imagine that `nums[-1] = nums[n] = -∞.` In other words, an element is always considered to be strictly greater than a neighbor that is outside the array.

You must write an algorithm that runs in O(log n) time..
 
# Examples

Example 1:

Input: nums = [1,2,3,1]
Output: 2
Explanation: 3 is a peak element and your function should return the index number 2.

Example 2:

Input: nums = [1,2,1,3,5,6,4]
Output: 5
Explanation: Your function can return either index number 1 where the peak element is 2, or index number 5 where the peak element is 6.

## Explanation

Binary search is a technique often used for searching a sorted array by repeatedly dividing the search interval in half. Although in this case the entire array isn't sorted, we can still use binary search because of the following key insight: if an element is not a peak (meaning it's less than either of its neighbors), then a peak must exist to the side of the greater neighbor.

The reason this works is because of our -∞ bounds at both ends of the array. We imagine a slope up from -∞ to a non-peak element and then down from the non-peak element towards -∞. Somewhere on that rising or falling slope there must be a peak, which is a local maximum.

So in our modified binary search, instead of looking for a specific value, we look for any peak as follows:
    We take the middle element of the current interval and compare it with its right neighbor.
    If the middle element is greater than its right neighbor, we've found a descending slope, and there must be a peak to the left. Hence, we restrict our search to the left half of the current interval.
    If the middle element is less than its right neighbor, we've found an ascending slope, and a peak exists to the right. We then do our next search on the right half.
    We continue this process of narrowing down our search interval by half until we've isolated a peak element.

## Algorithm

1. We initialize two pointers, left and right, which represent the boundaries of our current search interval. left is set to 0, and right is set to the length of the array minus one (len(nums) - 1).

2. We enter a while loop that continues as long as left is less than right, ensuring that we are still considering a range of possible positions for a peak element.

3. Inside the loop, we calculate the midpoint of the current search interval as mid = (left + right) >> 1. The >> 1 operation is a bitwise shift to the right by 1 bit, which is equivalent to dividing by two, but it's often faster.

4. We then compare the element at the mid position with the element immediately to its right (nums[mid + 1]).

5. If nums[mid] is greater than nums[mid + 1], the peak must be at mid or to the left of mid. Thus, we set right to mid, effectively narrowing the search interval to the left half.

6. On the other hand, if nums[mid] is less than or equal to nums[mid + 1], then a peak lies to the right. Thus, we set left to mid + 1, narrowing the search interval to the right half.

7. The loop continues, halving the search space each time, until left equals right. At this point, we have found the peak because it means that nums[left] cannot be smaller than both its neighbors (as per the nums[-1] = nums[n] = -∞ rule).

8. We exit the loop and return left, which is the index of the peak element.

## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    int findPeakElement(vector<int>& nums) {
        int left = 0, right = nums.size() - 1;
        while (left < right) {
            int mid = ( left + right ) / 2;
            if (nums[mid] > nums[mid + 1]) {
                right = mid;
            } else {
                left = mid + 1;
            }
        }
        return left; 
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
from typing import List

class Solution:
    def findPeakElement(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        # Initialize the start and end pointers.
        start, end = 0, len(nums) - 1

        # Binary search to find the peak element.
        while start < end:
            # Find the middle index.
            mid = (start + end) // 2

            # If the middle element is greater than its next element,
            # it means a peak element is on the left side(inclusive of mid).
            if nums[mid] > nums[mid + 1]:
                end = mid
            # Otherwise, the peak is in the right half of the array.
            else:
                start = mid + 1
      
        # When start and end pointers meet, we've found a peak element.
        return start
```

Time Complexity: O(log n) -> Binary Search <br>
Space Complexity: O(1) -> not creating any space.
