## [Non-Overlapping Intervals](https://leetcode.com/problems/non-overlapping-intervals/description/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/non-overlapping-intervals/description/ <br>
Complexity: Easy <br>
Tags: Arrays, Intervals <br>


# Question

Given an array of intervals intervals where `intervals[i] = [starti, endi]`, return the minimum number of intervals you need to remove to make the rest of the intervals non-overlapping.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: intervals = [[1,2],[2,3],[3,4],[1,3]]
Output: 1
Explanation: [1,3] can be removed and the rest of the intervals are non-overlapping.

Example 2:

Input: intervals = [[1,2],[1,2],[1,2]]
Output: 2
Explanation: You need to remove two [1,2] to make the rest of the intervals non-overlapping.

Example 3:

Input: intervals = [[1,2],[2,3]]
Output: 0
Explanation: You don't need to remove any of the intervals since they're already non-overlapping.

## Explanation

The key intuition behind the solution lies in the greedy algorithm approach. A greedy algorithm makes the locally optimal choice at each stage with the hope of finding the global optimum. In the context of this problem, the greedy choice would be to always pick the interval that ends the earliest, because this would leave the most room for subsequent intervals.

Here is the thinking process for arriving at the solution:

  Sort the intervals based on their end times. This way, we encounter the intervals that finish earliest first and can thus make the greedy choice.
  Start with the first interval, considering it as non-overlapping by default, and make a note of its end time.
  Iterate through the subsequent intervals:
  If the start time of the current interval is not less than the end time of the last non-overlapping interval, it means this interval does not overlap with the previously considered intervals. We can then update our last known end time to be the end time of the current interval.
  If the start time is less than the last known end time, an overlap occurs, and we must choose to remove an interval. Following the greedy approach, we keep the interval with the earlier end time and remove the other by incrementing our answer (the number of intervals to remove).
  By following these steps and always choosing the interval that finishes earliest, we ensure that we take up the least possible space on the timeline for each interval, and therefore maximize the number of intervals we can include without overlapping.

## Algorithm

1. Sorting Intervals: The input list of intervals is sorted based on the end times of the intervals.
2. Initializing Variables: Two variables are initialized:
3. Iterating Over Intervals: The code iterates through the rest of the intervals starting from the second interval (since the first interval's end time is stored in t).
4. Checking for Overlapping: In each iteration, the code checks if the current interval's start time s is greater than or equal to the variable t:
  If s >= t, there is no overlap with the last chosen interval, so the current interval can be kept. We then update t to the current interval's end time e.
  If s < t, there is an overlap with the last chosen interval, so the current interval needs to be removed, and we increment ans by 1.
5. Returning the Result: After the loop finishes, ans holds the minimum number of intervals that need to be removed to make all remaining intervals non-overlapping, so it is returned as the final result.

## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
 public:
  int eraseOverlapIntervals(vector<vector<int>>& intervals) {
    if (intervals.empty())
      return 0;

    ranges::sort(intervals,
                 [](const auto& a, const auto& b) { return a[1] < b[1]; });

    int ans = 0;
    int currentEnd = intervals[0][1];

    // Iterate over all intervals starting from the second one
    for (int i = 1; i < intervals.size(); ++i)
      // If the current interval starts after the end of the last added interval, it does not overlap.
      if (intervals[i][0] >= currentEnd)
        currentEnd = intervals[i][1];
      else
        // If the current interval overlaps, increment the nonOverlappingCount.
        ++ans;

    return ans;
  }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def eraseOverlapIntervals(self, intervals: list[list[int]]) -> int:
    ans = 0
    currentEnd = -math.inf

    for interval in sorted(intervals, key=lambda x: x[1]):
      if interval[0] >= currentEnd:
        currentEnd = interval[1]
      else:
        ans += 1

    return ans
```	

Time Complexity: O(n log n) <br>
Space Complexity: O(1)