## [Minimum Number of Arrows to Burst Balloons](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-number-of-arrows-to-burst-balloons/description/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-number-of-arrows-to-burst-balloons/description/ <br>
Complexity: Medium <br>
Tags: Arrays, DP <br>


# Question

There are some spherical balloons taped onto a flat wall that represents the XY-plane. The balloons are represented as a 2D integer array points where `points[i] = [xstart, xend]` denotes a balloon whose horizontal diameter stretches between xstart and xend. You do not know the exact y-coordinates of the balloons.

Arrows can be shot up directly vertically (in the positive y-direction) from different points along the x-axis. A balloon with xstart and xend is burst by an arrow shot at x if `xstart <= x <= xend`. There is no limit to the number of arrows that can be shot. A shot arrow keeps traveling up infinitely, bursting any balloons in its path.

Given the array points, return the minimum number of arrows that must be shot to burst all balloons.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: points = [[10,16],[2,8],[1,6],[7,12]]
Output: 2
Explanation: The balloons can be burst by 2 arrows:
- Shoot an arrow at x = 6, bursting the balloons [2,8] and [1,6].
- Shoot an arrow at x = 11, bursting the balloons [10,16] and [7,12].

Example 2:

Input: points = [[1,2],[3,4],[5,6],[7,8]]
Output: 4
Explanation: One arrow needs to be shot for each balloon for a total of 4 arrows.

Example 3:

Input: points = [[1,2],[2,3],[3,4],[4,5]]
Output: 2
Explanation: The balloons can be burst by 2 arrows:
- Shoot an arrow at x = 2, bursting the balloons [1,2] and [2,3].
- Shoot an arrow at x = 4, bursting the balloons [3,4] and [4,5].


## Explanation

Sorting the balloons based on their x_end value. This allows us to organize the balloons in a way that we always deal with the balloon that ends first. By doing this, we ensure that we can shoot as many balloons as possible with a single arrow.

Scanning through the sorted balloons and initializing last, the position of the last shot arrow, to negative infinity (since we haven't shot any arrow yet).

For each balloon in the sorted list, we check if the balloon's x_start is greater than last, which would mean this balloon doesn't overlap with the previously shot arrow's range and requires a new arrow. If so, we increment the arrow count ans and update last with the balloon's x_end, marking the end of the current arrow's reach.

If a balloon's start is within the range of the last shot arrow (x_start <= last), it is already burst by the previous arrow, so we don't need to shoot another arrow.

We keep following step 3 and 4 until all balloons are checked. The arrow count ans then gives us the minimum number of arrows required to burst all balloons.

## Algorithm

First, a sort operation is applied on the points list. The key for sorting is set to lambda x: x[1], which sorts the balloons in ascending order based on their ending x-coordinates (x_end).

sorted(points, key=lambda x: x[1])
A variable ans is initialized to 0 to keep track of the total number of arrows used.

Another variable last is initialized to negative infinity (-inf). This variable is used to store the x-coordinate of the last shot arrow that will help us check if the next balloon can be burst by the same arrow or if we need a new arrow.

A for loop iterates through each balloon in the sorted list points. The loop checks if the current balloon's start coordinate is greater than last. If the condition is true, it implies that the current arrow cannot burst this balloon, hence we increment ans and set last to this balloon's end coordinate:

last = b
This ensures that any subsequent balloon that starts before b (the current last) can be burst by the current arrow.

If the start coordinate of the balloon is not greater than last, it means the balloon overlaps with the range of the current arrow and will be burst by it, so ans is not incremented.

After the loop finishes, the variable ans has the minimum number of arrows required, which is then returned as the final answer.

## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
 public:
  int findMinArrowShots(vector<vector<int>>& points) {
    ranges::sort(points,
                 [](const auto& a, const auto& b) { return a[1] < b[1]; });

    int ans = 1;
    int arrowX = points[0][1];

    for (int i = 1; i < points.size(); ++i)
      if (points[i][0] > arrowX) {
        arrowX = points[i][1];
        ++ans;
      }

    return ans;
  }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def findMinArrowShots(self, points: list[list[int]]) -> int:
    ans = 0
    arrowX = -math.inf

    for point in sorted(points, key=lambda x: x[1]):
      if point[0] > arrowX:
        ans += 1
        arrowX = point[1]

    return ans
```
Time Complexity: O(n log n) <br>
Space Complexity: O(n)