## [Maximum Average Subarray I](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-average-subarray-i/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-average-subarray-i/description/
Complexity: Easy 
Tags: Arrays, Sliding Window


# Question

You are given an integer array nums consisting of n elements, and an integer k.

Find a contiguous subarray whose length is equal to k that has the maximum average value and return this value. Any answer with a calculation error less than 10-5 will be accepted.


# Examples

Example 1:

Input: nums = [1,12,-5,-6,50,3], k = 4
Output: 12.75000
Explanation: Maximum average is (12 - 5 - 6 + 50) / 4 = 51 / 4 = 12.75
Example 2:

Input: nums = [5], k = 1
Output: 5.00000

## Explanation

The key idea behind this technique is to maintain a "window" of size k that moves through the array, one element at a time, updating the sum of the window as it goes. By doing this, we avoid recalculating the sum for each subarray from scratch

## Algorithm

1. First, calculate the sum of the initial window, which is the sum of the first k elements.
2. This sum is our current maximum sum (and, as it stands, the maximum average since we would divide this by k).
3. Now, slide the window by one element to the right. This means adding the element that comes after the current window and subtracting the element that is leaving the window.
4. Update the maximum sum if the new window's sum is greater.
5. Repeat this process of sliding the window and updating the maximum sum until we have visited all possible windows of size k.
6. Since the maximum sum will have been found by the time we've checked all windows, we can simply take the maximum sum and divide it by k to find the maximum average.


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    double findMaxAverage(vector<int>& nums, int k) {
        int s = accumulate(nums.begin(), nums.begin() + k, 0);
        int ans = s;
        for (int i = k; i < nums.size(); ++i) {
            s += nums[i] - nums[i - k];
            ans = max(ans, s);
        }
        return static_cast<double>(ans) / k;
        
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def findMaxAverage(self, nums: list[int], k: int) -> float:
    summ = sum(nums[:k])
    ans = summ

    for i in range(k, len(nums)):
      summ += nums[i] - nums[i - k]
      ans = max(ans, summ)

    return ans / k
```
Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete array from both ends.
Space complexity: O(1) -> we are not creating any extra space. 	
