## [Longest Subarray of 1's After Deleting One Element](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-subarray-of-1s-after-deleting-one-element/description/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-subarray-of-1s-after-deleting-one-element/description/ <br>
Complexity: Medium <br>
Tags: Arrays, Sliding Window <br>


# Question

Given a binary array `nums`, you should delete one element from it.

Return the size of the longest non-empty subarray containing only 1's in the resulting array. Return 0 if there is no such subarray.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: nums = [1,1,0,1]
Output: 3
Explanation: After deleting the number in position 2, [1,1,1] contains 3 numbers with value of 1's.

Example 2:

Input: nums = [0,1,1,1,0,1,1,0,1]
Output: 5
Explanation: After deleting the number in position 4, [0,1,1,1,1,1,0,1] longest subarray with value of 1's is [1,1,1,1,1].

Example 3:

Input: nums = [1,1,1]
Output: 2
Explanation: You must delete one element.

## Explanation

Look at each segment of 1s as a potential candidate and checking the length we can obtain after removing an element. We want to maximize this length by strategically picking an element for removal. The key insight here is that if there are consecutive 1s, removing one 1 does not impact the length of the subarray of 1s on either side of it.

## Algorithm

1. Initialization: Two lists, left and right, each of the same length as nums, are created and initialized with zeroes. These lists will store the length of continuous 1s to the left and right of each index, respectively.

2. Populating the left list: We start iterating over the array nums from the second element onwards (index 1 because we consider 0 as the base case which is already initialized to zero). For each index i, if the element at the previous index (i - 1) is 1, we set left[i] to left[i - 1] + 1. Effectively, this records the length of a stretch of 1s ending at the current index.

3. Populating the right list: We do a similar iteration, but this time from right to left, starting from the second-to-last element (index n - 2 where n is the length of nums). For each index i, if the element at the next index (i + 1) is 1, we set right[i] to right[i + 1] + 1. This captures the length of a stretch of 1s starting right after the current index.

4. Finding the longest subarray: Once we have both left and right lists populated, we iterate over all possible remove positions (these positions do not have to be 1; they can be 0 as well, as we will merge stretches of 1s around them). For each index, we calculate the sum of left[i] + right[i], which approximates the length of the subarray of 1s if we removed the element at the current index. However, since we are supposed to actually remove an element to create the longest subsequence, the sum implicitly considers this by not adding an additional 1 even though we are summing the lengths from both sides.

5. Returning the result: The maximum value from these sums corresponds to the size of the longest subarray containing only 1s after one deletion. This is found using the max() function applied to the sums of left[i] + right[i] for each index i


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    int longestSubarray(vector<int>& nums) {
      int size = nums.size();

      vector<int> left(size, 0);
      vector<int> right(size, 0);

      for (int i = 1; i < size; ++i) {
          if (nums[i - 1] == 1) {
              left[i] = left[i - 1] + 1;
          }
      }

      // Fill the right array with the counts of consecutive 1's from the right
      for (int i = size - 2; i >= 0; --i) {
          if (nums[i + 1] == 1) {
              right[i] = right[i + 1] + 1;
          }
      }

      int max_length = 0;

      for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i) {
          // The longest subarray is the sum of consecutive 1's to the left and right of the current element
          max_length = max(max_length, left[i] + right[i]);
      }
      return max_length;
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def longestSubarray(self, nums: list[int]) -> int:
    ans = 0
    zeros = 0

    l = 0
    for r, num in enumerate(nums):
      if num == 0:
        zeros += 1
      while zeros == 2:
        if nums[l] == 0:
          zeros -= 1
        l += 1
      ans = max(ans, r - l)

    return ans
```
Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete array. <br>
Space complexity: O(n) -> we are creating any extra space. 	
