## [Product of Array Except Self](https://leetcode.com/problems/product-of-array-except-self/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/product-of-array-except-self/description
Complexity: Medium 
Tags: Arrays, Prefix Sum


# Question

Given an integer array nums, return an array answer such that answer[i] is equal to the product of all the elements of nums except nums[i].

The product of any prefix or suffix of nums is guaranteed to fit in a 32-bit integer.

You must write an algorithm that runs in O(n) time and without using the division operation.


# Examples

Example 1:

Input: nums = [1,2,3,4]
Output: [24,12,8,6]
Example 2:

Input: nums = [-1,1,0,-3,3]
Output: [0,0,9,0,0]
    

## Explanation

The solution to this problem involves accumulating products from both ends of the array. Since we can't use division, we need to think about how we can get the product of all elements except for the current one. A smart way to do this is by multiplying two separate products: one accumulated from the beginning of the array up to the element right before the current one, and another from the end of the array to the element right after the current one.

## Algorithm

1. We initialize two variables, left and right, to 1. They will hold the products of elements to the left and right of the current element, respectively.

2. We create an array ans to store our results, starting with default values (often zeroes).

3. We traverse the array from the left; each ans[i] gets the current product on its left (initialized with 1 for the first element as there are no elements to its left), then we update left to include nums[i]. So during this pass, left accumulates the product of all numbers to the left of the current index.

4. Next, we traverse the array from the right; we multiply each ans[i] with the current product on its right (again, starting with 1), and after the multiplication, we update right to include nums[i]. During this pass, right accumulates the product of all numbers to the right of the current index.

5. By the end of these two passes, each ans[i] will have been multiplied by both the products of the numbers to its left and right, effectively giving us the product of all other numbers except for nums[i].


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> productExceptSelf(vector<int>& nums) {
        int n = nums.size();
        vector<int> ans(n);
        for (int i = 0, left = 1; i < n; ++i) {
            ans[i] = left;
            left *= nums[i];
        }
        for (int i = n - 1, right = 1; ~i; --i) {
            ans[i] *= right;
            right *= nums[i];
        }
        return ans;       
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def productExceptSelf(self, nums: list[int]) -> list[int]:
    n = len(nums)
    prefix = [1] * n  # prefix product
    suffix = [1] * n  # suffix product

    for i in range(1, n):
      prefix[i] = prefix[i - 1] * nums[i - 1]

    for i in reversed(range(n - 1)):
      suffix[i] = suffix[i + 1] * nums[i + 1]

    return [prefix[i] * suffix[i] for i in range(n)]
```

Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete array.
Space complexity: O(1) -> we are not creating any extra space. 	
