## [Increasing Triplet Subsequence](https://leetcode.com/problems/increasing-triplet-subsequence)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/increasing-triplet-subsequence/description/
Complexity: Medium 
Tags: Arrays, 


# Question

Given an integer array nums, return true if there exists a triple of indices (i, j, k) such that i < j < k and nums[i] < nums[j] < nums[k]. If no such indices exists, return false.


# Examples

Example 1:

Input: nums = [1,2,3,4,5]
Output: true
Explanation: Any triplet where i < j < k is valid.

Example 2:

Input: nums = [5,4,3,2,1]
Output: false
Explanation: No triplet exists.

Example 3:

Input: nums = [2,1,5,0,4,6]
Output: true
Explanation: The triplet (3, 4, 5) is valid because nums[3] == 0 < nums[4] == 4 < nums[5] == 6.
    

## Explanation

To arrive at the solution efficiently, instead of looking for the whole triplet right away, we can keep track of the smallest number we have encountered so far (mi) and a middle number that is greater than mi but smaller than any potential third number (mid). As we iterate through the array, we can update these two numbers whenever possible. The idea here is to maintain the lowest possible values for mi and mid as we move forward, giving us the best chance to find a number that would be greater than both, thus forming our triplet.



## Algorithm

1. If the current number (num) is less than or equal to mi, it becomes the new mi because we're always interested in the smallest starting point of the potential triplet.
2. If num is greater than mi but less than mid, we have found a possible middle part of our triplet, so we set mid to this new number.
3. If num is greater than mid, this means we have successfully found a triplet (because num is greater than both mi and mid, which also implies that mi is less than mid), and we can return true.


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    bool increasingTriplet(vector<int>& nums) {
        int mi = INT_MAX, mid = INT_MAX;
        for (int num : nums) {
            if (num > mid) return true;
            if (num <= mi)
                mi = num;
            else
                mid = num;
        }
        return false;      
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def increasingTriplet(self, nums: list[int]) -> bool:
    first = math.inf
    second = math.inf

    for num in nums:
      if num <= first:
        first = num
      elif num <= second:  # first < num <= second
        second = num
      else:
        return True  # first < second < num (third)

    return False
```

Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete array.
Space complexity: O(1) -> we are not creating any extra space. 	
