## [Number of Recent Calls](https://leetcode.com/problems/number-of-recent-calls/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/number-of-recent-calls/
Complexity: Easy 
Tags: Queue, DataStream 


# Question

You have a RecentCounter class which counts the number of recent requests within a certain time frame.

Implement the RecentCounter class:

RecentCounter() Initializes the counter with zero recent requests.
int ping(int t) Adds a new request at time t, where t represents some time in milliseconds, and returns the number of requests that has happened in the past 3000 milliseconds (including the new request). Specifically, return the number of requests that have happened in the inclusive range [t - 3000, t].
It is guaranteed that every call to ping uses a strictly larger value of t than the previous call.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input
["RecentCounter", "ping", "ping", "ping", "ping"]
[[], [1], [100], [3001], [3002]]
Output
[null, 1, 2, 3, 3]

Explanation
RecentCounter recentCounter = new RecentCounter();
recentCounter.ping(1);     // requests = [1], range is [-2999,1], return 1
recentCounter.ping(100);   // requests = [1, 100], range is [-2900,100], return 2
recentCounter.ping(3001);  // requests = [1, 100, 3001], range is [1,3001], return 3
recentCounter.ping(3002);  // requests = [1, 100, 3001, 3002], range is [2,3002], return 3

## Explanation

The key to solving this problem is to maintain a dynamic list of timestamped requests, ensuring that only those within the last 3000 milliseconds are counted. Because the input guarantees that each t in ping is increasing, we can use a queue to keep track of the timestamps of the recent requests.

The intuition for using a queue comes from its FIFO (First-In-First-Out) property, which naturally aligns with the progression of time in our problem. When a new request arrives with timestamp t, we add it to the end of the queue. Then we need to remove all requests from the front of the queue that are outside the 3000 millisecond window (i.e., older than t - 3000).

By doing so, our queue always contains only those requests that are within the 3000 millisecond window. The length of the queue after this cleaning process gives us the number of recent requests, which is what the ping method returns.

## Algorithm

1. Create a queue and initialize it to zero. 
2. For every request, add it to queue. 
3. If the timestamp is less than 3000, remove it from the queue  
4. Return the size of the queue. 


## Solution in cpp
```
class RecentCounter {
public:
    queue<int> q;
    RecentCounter() {
        
    }
    
    int ping(int t) {
        q.push(t);
        while (q.front() < t - 3000) q.pop();
        return q.size();
    }
};

/**
 * Your RecentCounter object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * RecentCounter* obj = new RecentCounter();
 * int param_1 = obj->ping(t);
 */
```

## Solution in Python 
```
class RecentCounter:
  def __init__(self):
    self.q = collections.deque()

  def ping(self, t: int) -> int:
    self.q.append(t)
    while self.q[0] < t - 3000:
      self.q.popleft()
    return len(self.q)
```

Time Complexity: O(n) -> worst case, in case n calls in 3000 seconds, otherwise O(1)
Space complexity: O(n) -> We add everything to the queue. 	
