## [Max Consecutive Ones III](https://leetcode.com/problems/max-consecutive-ones-iii/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/max-consecutive-ones-iii/description/
Complexity: Medium 
Tags: Arrays, Sliding Window


# Question

Given a binary array nums and an integer k, return the maximum number of consecutive 1's in the array if you can flip at most k 0's.


# Examples

Example 1:

Input: nums = [1,1,1,0,0,0,1,1,1,1,0], k = 2
Output: 6
Explanation: [1,1,1,0,0,1,1,1,1,1,1]

Example 2:

Input: nums = [0,0,1,1,0,0,1,1,1,0,1,1,0,0,0,1,1,1,1], k = 3
Output: 10
Explanation: [0,0,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,1,0,0,0,1,1,1,1]

## Explanation

We use sliding window to tackle the problem, please see the Algorithm.

## Algorithm

We aim to find the longest sequence of 1s which may include k or fewer flipped 0s.
We initialize two pointers l (left) and r (right) which define the current window. The window starts with no elements (both pointers at -1).
We iterate through the array with the r pointer incremented in each step examining each element. We expand the window by moving r to the right.
If a 0 is encountered, we decrease the count of k because we are envisioning a flip happening here to turn it into a 1 for the sake of our current sequence.
If k becomes negative, it means our window has too many 0s (more than the allowed k flips). We need to shrink the window from the left by incrementing l. Each time we pass a 0 while moving l to the right, we increment k back as we are effectively undoing a flip.
Throughout this process, we are implicitly tracking the length of the current window. The maximum length encountered during the iteration is the length of the longest sequence we are looking for.
The length of the window is always r - l, but since our pointers start from -1, when the right pointer has reached the end of the array (index len(nums) - 1), the window length is simply r - l without needing to add one for usual zero-based index arrays.


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    int longestOnes(vector<int>& nums, int k) {
        int l = 0, cnt = 0;
        for (int x : nums) {
            cnt += x ^ 1;
            if (cnt > k) {
                cnt -= nums[l++] ^ 1;
            }
        }
        return nums.size() - l;     
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def longestOnes(self, nums: list[int], k: int) -> int:
    ans = 0

    l = 0
    for r, num in enumerate(nums):
      if num == 0:
        k -= 1
      while k < 0:
        if nums[l] == 0:
          k += 1
        l += 1
      ans = max(ans, r - l + 1)

    return ans
```
Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete array.
Space complexity: O(1) -> we are not creating any extra space. 	
