## [Odd Even Linked List](https://leetcode.com/problems/odd-even-linked-list/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/odd-even-linked-list/
Complexity: Medium
Tags: Linked List, 


# Question

Given the head of a singly linked list, group all the nodes with odd indices together followed by the nodes with even indices, and return the reordered list.

The first node is considered odd, and the second node is even, and so on.

Note that the relative order inside both the even and odd groups should remain as it was in the input.

You must solve the problem in O(1) extra space complexity and O(n) time complexity.


# Examples

Example 1:

Input: head = [1,2,3,4,5]
Output: [1,3,5,2,4]

Example 2:

Input: head = [2,1,3,5,6,4,7]
Output: [2,3,6,7,1,5,4]

## Explanation

The approach is to create two pointers, one that will traverse the odd nodes (a in the solution code) and another for the even nodes (b). The pointers essentially alternate, where a progresses to the node pointed to by b.next and b then moves to the node pointed to by the updated a.next. This way, a is skipping over the even nodes to link together all the odd nodes, and b does the same among the even nodes. This also maintains the original relative order within each subgroup of nodes.

After the loop, all odd-indexed nodes and even-indexed nodes are grouped separately, but we need to link the last node of the odd nodes to the first of the even nodes. To facilitate this, before starting the reordering process, we keep a separate pointer, c, at the first even node. When the reordering is complete (which is when b or b.next is None, indicating the end of the list), we simply link the last node of the odd-indexed group (pointed to by a) to the first of the even-indexed group (pointed to by c). At this point, our reordering is complete and we can return the head of the modified list as the final output.

## Algorithm

1. First, we initialize three pointers: 
    a, which starts at the head of the list and will be used to iterate over odd indexed nodes.
    b, which starts at the second node (head.next) and will be used to iterate over even indexed nodes.
    c, which keeps track of the head of the even indexed sublist (also starts at head.next).
2. We enter a loop that continues until either b is None (meaning we've reached the end of the list) or b.next is None (meaning there are no more odd nodes to process since odd nodes are followed by even nodes).
3. Inside the loop: 
    We link a.next to b.next, which is effectively connecting the current odd-indexed node to the next odd-indexed node (a.next skips an even node).
    We update a to be a.next so that it now points to the next odd-indexed node.
    We link b.next to a.next, since a has advanced one step, a.next is now an even-indexed node, and we need to skip an odd node.
    We update b to be b.next to move to the next even-indexed node.
4. After the loop, all odd nodes are now connected, and a points to the last odd node. We set a.next to c, which links the end of the odd-indexed sublist to the head of the even-indexed sublist we tracked earlier.
5. Finally, we return head, which now points to the reordered list where odd-indexed nodes are grouped at the beginning, followed by even-indexed nodes. 
8. Return the string.


## Solution in cpp
```
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * struct ListNode {
 *     int val;
 *     ListNode *next;
 *     ListNode() : val(0), next(nullptr) {}
 *     ListNode(int x) : val(x), next(nullptr) {}
 *     ListNode(int x, ListNode *next) : val(x), next(next) {}
 * };
 */
class Solution {
public:
    ListNode* oddEvenList(ListNode* head) {
        if (!head) {
            return nullptr;
        }
        ListNode* a = head;
        ListNode *b = head->next, *c = b;
        while (b && b->next) {
            a->next = b->next;
            a = a->next;
            b->next = a->next;
            b = b->next;
        }
        a->next = c;
        return head;
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python 
```
class Solution:
  def oddEvenList(self, head: ListNode) -> ListNode:
    oddHead = ListNode(0)
    evenHead = ListNode(0)
    odd = oddHead
    even = evenHead
    isOdd = True

    while head:
      if isOdd:
        odd.next = head
        odd = head
      else:
        even.next = head
        even = head
      head = head.next
      isOdd = not isOdd

    even.next = None
    odd.next = evenHead.next
    return oddHead.next
```

Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete list from starting.
Space complexity: O(1) -> we are not creating any extra space.
