## [Counting Bits](https://leetcode.com/problems/counting-bits/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/counting-bits/description/ <br>
Complexity: Easy <br>
Tags: Bit Manipulation, Dynamic Programming <br>


# Question

Given an integer n, return an array ans of length `n + 1` such that for each i (0 <= i <= n), ans[i] is the number of 1's in the binary representation of i.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: n = 2
Output: [0,1,1]
Explanation:
0 --> 0
1 --> 1
2 --> 10

Example 2:

Input: n = 5
Output: [0,1,1,2,1,2]
Explanation:
0 --> 0
1 --> 1
2 --> 10
3 --> 11
4 --> 100
5 --> 101

## Explanation

In binary form, performing an & (bitwise AND) operation between a number i and i - 1 will result in a number that is the same as i but with its least significant 1 bit removed. For example, 10 in binary is 1010, and 9 is 1001; performing 1010 & 1001 equals 1000, which removes the least significant 1 bit in 1001.

Knowing this, we can build an array ans that uses this property to count the number of 1s. Start with ans[0] = 0 because the binary representation of 0 has zero 1 bits. Then, iterate through numbers from 1 to n, and for each number i, calculate ans[i] as ans[i & (i - 1)] + 1. Here, ans[i & (i - 1)] gives us the count of 1s for the number we get after removing the least significant 1 from i, and we add 1 because we've removed one 1 bit. This solution is efficient because it avoids recalculating the number of 1 bits for each number from scratch, using previous results instead.

## Algorithm

1. Initialize the array ans to have length n + 1, all initialized to 0. This array is to hold the count of 1 bits for each index, which corresponds to a number from 0 to n.
2. Start a loop from 1 up to n because we already know ans[0] is 0:
    Inside the loop, for each number i, assign ans[i] = ans[i & (i - 1)] + 1.
        Here, i & (i - 1) is the previously mentioned bit manipulation, which gives us a number less than i, which has one less 1 bit.
        We then take the count of 1s for that number (ans[i & (i - 1)]), which we've already calculated, and add 1 to account for the 1 bit we've just stripped off.
        Hence, ans[i] accurately stores the count of 1 bits for the number i.
3. After the loop completes, return the ans array. It now contains the number of 1s in the binary representation of each number from 0 to n.

## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    vector<int> countBits(int n) {
        vector<int> ans(n + 1);
        for (int i = 1; i <= n; ++i) {
            //ans[i] = __builtin_popcount(i);
            ans[i] = ans[i & (i-1)] + 1;
        }
        return ans;    
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def countBits(self, n: int) -> list[int]:
    # f(i) := i's number of 1s in bitmask
    # f(i) = f(i / 2) + i % 2
    # initialize a list of n+1
    ans = [0] * (n + 1)

    for i in range(1, n + 1):
      ans[i] = ans[i & i-1] + 1

    return ans
```
Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete list n. <br>
Space complexity: O(n) -> we are creating extra space of list n. 	
