## [Single Number](https://leetcode.com/problems/single-number/description/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/counting-bits/description/ <br>
Complexity: Easy <br>
Tags: Arrays, Bit Manipulation <br>


# Question

Given a non-empty array of integers `nums`, every element appears twice except for one. Find that single one.

You must implement a solution with a linear runtime complexity and use only constant extra space.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: nums = [2,2,1]
Output: 1
Example 2:

Input: nums = [4,1,2,1,2]
Output: 4
Example 3:

Input: nums = [1]
Output: 1

## Explanation

The solution hinges on the concept of the XOR bitwise operation, which has two key properties that we can exploit:

Any number XORed with itself equals 0, i.e., a XOR a = 0.
Any number XORed with 0 equals the number itself, i.e., a XOR 0 = a.
Based on above 2, if there are 3 numbers, 4, 1, 1, the result of xor of three numbers is 4. 

Given these properties, we can iterate over all the numbers in the array and XOR them progressively. The key insight is that pairs of identical numbers will cancel each other out because of property 1 (resulting in 0), and single numbers will emerge unchanged because of property 2.


## Algorithm

1. We initialize a variable as 0. 
2. Loop through the vector and xor it with each number in the list.
    1. With first number, we will do xor on 0 and x. The result will be x.
    2. We will keep on xoring the result with all the numbers, once there are duplicates, the numbers cancel out each other.
3. Return the answer. 


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    int singleNumber(vector<int>& nums) {
        int ans = 0;
        for (int v : nums) {
            ans ^= v;
        }
        return ans;        
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def singleNumber(self, nums: list[int]) -> int:
    return functools.reduce(operator.xor, nums, 0)
```

Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete array. <br>
Space complexity: O(1) -> we are not creating any extra space. 	
