## [Minimum Flips to Make a OR b Equal to c](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-flips-to-make-a-or-b-equal-to-c/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-flips-to-make-a-or-b-equal-to-c/ <br>
Complexity: Medium <br>
Tags: Arrays, Bit Manipulation <br>

# Question

Given 3 positives numbers a, b and c. Return the minimum flips required in some bits of a and b to make ( a OR b == c ). (bitwise OR operation).
Flip operation consists of change any single bit 1 to 0 or change the bit 0 to 1 in their binary representation.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: a = 2, b = 6, c = 5
Output: 3
Explanation: After flips a = 1 , b = 4 , c = 5 such that (a OR b == c)

Example 2:

Input: a = 4, b = 2, c = 7
Output: 1

Example 3:

Input: a = 1, b = 2, c = 3
Output: 0


## Explanation

The intuition behind the solution is to compare the bits of a, b, and c in each corresponding position and determine if a flip is needed. To do this, we iterate through each bit position of the given numbers from the least significant bit to the most significant bit.

For each bit position i, if the ith bit of a OR b does not match the ith bit of c, we must flip bits in a or b to match c. There are a couple of scenarios to consider:

If both a and b have 1 at the ith bit, and c has 0, we must flip both bits in a and b, resulting in two flips.
In any other case where a | b and c do not match (for example, one of a or b is 1 and c is 0, or both a and b are 0 and c is 1), a single flip is sufficient.

## Algorithm

1. Initialize a variable ans to keep track of the number of flips needed.
2. Iterate over each bit position (from 0 to 29) to examine individual bits of a, b, and c. The range is up to 30 to cover typical 32-bit integers without the sign bit.
3. For each iteration, use the right-shift operator >> to move the ith bit to the least significant bit position, then use the bitwise AND operator & with 1 to extract the value of that bit for a, b, and c. This results in three variables x, y, and z representing the ith bits of a, b, and c, respectively.
4. Use the bitwise OR operator | to determine the result of x | y and compare it to z. If they are not equal, flips are required:
    If both x and y are 1 and z is 0, it means both bits in a and b must be flipped, hence ans is incremented by 2.
    In any other case where a flip is needed (such as when one of a or b has a 1 and c has a 0, or both a and b have a 0 and c has a 1), only 1 flip is necessary, so ans is incremented by 1.
5. The loop continues until all bits have been considered.
6. The ans variable, which now holds the total number of flips needed, is returned.


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    int minFlips(int a, int b, int c) {
        int ans = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < 30; ++i) {
            // Find the bit and save in three variables.
            int x = a >> i & 1, y = b >> i & 1, z = c >> i & 1;
            if ( (x | y) != z) {
                ans += (x == 1 && y == 1) ? 2 : 1;
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
    def minFlips(self, a: int, b: int, c: int) -> int:
        ans = 0;
        for i in range(30):
            # Find the bit and save in three variables.
            x = a >> i & 1
            y = b >> i & 1
            z = c >> i & 1;
            if ((x | y) != z):
                if (x == 1 and y == 1):
                    ans = ans + 2
                else:
                    ans = ans + 1
        return ans;
```

Time Complexity: O(1) -> constant time irrespctive of input. <br>
Space complexity: O(1) -> we are not creating any extra space. 	
