## [Kth Largest Element in an Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/kth-largest-element-in-an-array/)

Problem link : https://leetcode.com/problems/kth-largest-element-in-an-array/ <br>
Complexity: Medium <br>
Tags: Heap, Array, Divide and Conquer, Sorting


# Question

Given an integer array nums and an integer `k`, return the `kth` largest element in the array.
Note that it is the `kth` largest element in the sorted order, not the `kth` distinct element.
Can you solve it without `sorting`?
 
# Examples

Example 1:

Input: nums = [3,2,1,5,6,4], k = 2
Output: 5

Example 2:

Input: nums = [3,2,3,1,2,4,5,5,6], k = 4
Output: 4

## Explanation

The intuition behind this approach is to maintain a min heap (priority queue) of size K while iterating through the array. Doing this ensures that the min heap always contains the K largest elements encountered so far. If the size of the max heap exceeds K, remove the largest element this step ensures that the heap maintains the K smallest elements encountered so far. In the end, the max heap’s top element will be the Kth smallest element.

## Algorithm

1. Initialize a min heap.
2. Loop through the elements of the array and insert them into the min-heap.
3. If the size of heap is storing any numbers greater than k, simply pop the number from the heap.
4. Once the loop completes, the root of the heap is the kth largest element.

## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    int findKthLargest(vector<int>& nums, int k) {
        priority_queue<int, vector<int>, greater<int>> minQ;
        for (int x : nums) {
            minQ.push(x);
            if (minQ.size() > k) {
                minQ.pop();
            }
        }
        return minQ.top();
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def findKthLargest(self, nums: list[int], k: int) -> int:
    minHeap = []

    for num in nums:
      heapq.heappush(minHeap, num)
      if len(minHeap) > k:
        heapq.heappop(minHeap)

    return minHeap[0]
```

Time Complexity: O(n) -> Looping through all the elements of the array. <br>
Space Complexity: O(k) -> we are stroing k elements on heap.