## [Smallest Number in Infinite Set](https://leetcode.com/problems/smallest-number-in-infinite-set/)

Problem link : https://leetcode.com/problems/smallest-number-in-infinite-set/ <br>
Complexity: Medium <br>
Tags: Heap, hash Table. <br>


# Question

You have a set which contains all positive integers `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, ...]`.

Implement the `SmallestInfiniteSet` class:

SmallestInfiniteSet() Initializes the SmallestInfiniteSet object to contain all positive integers.
int popSmallest() Removes and returns the smallest integer contained in the infinite set.
void addBack(int num) Adds a positive integer num back into the infinite set, if it is not already in the infinite set.
 
# Examples

Example 1:

Input
["SmallestInfiniteSet", "addBack", "popSmallest", "popSmallest", "popSmallest", "addBack", "popSmallest", "popSmallest", "popSmallest"]
[[], [2], [], [], [], [1], [], [], []]
Output
[null, null, 1, 2, 3, null, 1, 4, 5]

Explanation
SmallestInfiniteSet smallestInfiniteSet = new SmallestInfiniteSet();
smallestInfiniteSet.addBack(2);    // 2 is already in the set, so no change is made.
smallestInfiniteSet.popSmallest(); // return 1, since 1 is the smallest number, and remove it from the set.
smallestInfiniteSet.popSmallest(); // return 2, and remove it from the set.
smallestInfiniteSet.popSmallest(); // return 3, and remove it from the set.
smallestInfiniteSet.addBack(1);    // 1 is added back to the set.
smallestInfiniteSet.popSmallest(); // return 1, since 1 was added back to the set and
                                   // is the smallest number, and remove it from the set.
smallestInfiniteSet.popSmallest(); // return 4, and remove it from the set.
smallestInfiniteSet.popSmallest(); // return 5, and remove it from the set.

## Explanation

The solution to this problem relies on maintaining a auxiliary set to keep track of the numbers that have been popped.

When popSmallest() is called, we start from 1 and check if that number is in the black set.
If it is not, we pop it (remove and return) and add it to the black set. If it is, we increment the number and check again until we find the smallest number not in the black set.

When addBack() is called with a number argument, we remove it from the black set, which represents adding it back into the set of available numbers to be popped. This is because a number can only be re-added if it has been removed before, and removing from the black will allow popSmallest() to find it again as the smallest available number.



## Algorithm

The popSmallest method is used to pop and return the smallest integer from the infinite set. 
    1. Start with i = 1 since 1 is the smallest positive integer.
    2. Increment i while i is in set. This is because if i is in set, it means that i has been previously popped.
    3. Once an i is found that is not in set, add it to set and return it.

The addBack method is meant to add a number back into the set if it isn't currently in the set.


## Solution in cpp
```
class SmallestInfiniteSet {
public:
    SmallestInfiniteSet() {
    }

    int popSmallest() {
        if (s.empty())
            return curr++;
        const int mn = *s.begin();
        s.erase(*s.begin());
        return mn;
    }

    void addBack(int num) {
        if (num < curr)
            s.insert(num);
    }

private:
    set<int> s;
    int curr = 1;
};

/**
 * Your SmallestInfiniteSet object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * SmallestInfiniteSet* obj = new SmallestInfiniteSet();
 * int param_1 = obj->popSmallest();
 * obj->addBack(num);
 */
```

## Solution in Python
```
class SmallestInfiniteSet:
    def __init__(self):
        # Initialize an empty set to keep track of popped elements
        self.popped_elements = set()

    def popSmallest(self) -> int:
        # Starting from 1, find the smallest integer not yet popped
        smallest = 1
        while smallest in self.popped_elements:
            smallest += 1
        # Add the found integer to the popped elements set
        self.popped_elements.add(smallest)
        # Return the smallest integer
        return smallest

    def addBack(self, num: int) -> None:
        # If the number is in the popped elements, remove it to make it available again
        if num in self.popped_elements:
            self.popped_elements.remove(num)
        # Note that if the number is not in the popped elements, no action is taken

# Example of how to use the SmallestInfiniteSet class
# obj = SmallestInfiniteSet() # Instantiate the class
# param_1 = obj.popSmallest() # Pop the smallest element available
# obj.addBack(num) # Add back a specific number into the set of available numbers
```

Time Complexity: <br>
popSmallest Method: The time complexity for popSmallest is O(n) <br>
addBack Method: The time complexity for addBack is O(1) <br>

Space Complexity: <br>
The space complexity of the entire class is O(m) <br>
