## [Implement Trie (Prefix Tree)](https://leetcode.com/problems/implement-trie-prefix-tree/description)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/implement-trie-prefix-tree/description <br>
Complexity: Medium <br>
Tags: Trie, Hash Table, String <br>


# Question

A `trie` (pronounced as "try") or `prefix tree` is a tree data structure used to efficiently store and retrieve keys in a dataset of strings. There are various applications of this data structure, such as autocomplete and spellchecker.

Implement the Trie class:

Trie() Initializes the trie object.
void insert(String word) Inserts the string word into the trie.
boolean search(String word) Returns true if the string word is in the trie (i.e., was inserted before), and false otherwise.
boolean startsWith(String prefix) Returns true if there is a previously inserted string word that has the prefix prefix, and false otherwise.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input
["Trie", "insert", "search", "search", "startsWith", "insert", "search"]
[[], ["apple"], ["apple"], ["app"], ["app"], ["app"], ["app"]]
Output
[null, null, true, false, true, null, true]

Explanation
Trie trie = new Trie();
trie.insert("apple"); 
trie.search("apple");   // return True
trie.search("app");     // return False
trie.startsWith("app"); // return True
trie.insert("app");
trie.search("app");     // return True

## Explanation

1. Trie Structure: The Trie class is visualized as a tree where each node contains an array of 26 elements representing the possible lowercase alphanumeric children ('a' to 'z'), and a boolean marker that signifies the end of a word (is_end).

2. Insertion: To insert a word, we iterate through each character of the word, map it to the appropriate child index (by subtracting the ASCII value of 'a' from the character's ASCII value to keep it within a 0-25 range), and move to the corresponding child node, creating a new node if it doesn't exist. When the end of the word is reached, we mark is_end as true at the final node.

3. Search: Searching for a whole word is similar to insertion, but instead of creating new nodes, we just traverse the nodes corresponding to each character. If we reach the end of the word, we check the is_end flag to see if the word is a complete and distinct entry in our trie.

4. Prefix Search: To search for a prefix, the process is almost identical to the word search, but we don't need to check the is_end flag; any reachable node after traversing the prefix indicates that a word with that prefix exists in the trie.

## Algorithm

1. Initialization: Our trie is initialized with 26 children (one for each lowercase letter) set to None, indicating that there are no child nodes yet. Additionally, a boolean is_end is initialized to False, signifying that initially, no word ends at this node.

2. Insert Method (insert): To insert a word, we iterate over each character in the word. We calculate the index for the children array by subtracting the ASCII value of 'a' from the character's ASCII value. If the child at this index is None, we create a new node there. After processing each character, we set the is_end flag at the node corresponding to the last character to True, indicating the end of the word.

3. Search Method (search): The search method makes use of an internal method _search_prefix that is common between the search and startsWith methods. This method attempts to traverse the trie according to the given word. If traversal is successful and the final node's is_end is True, it means the word exists in the trie.

4. Prefix Search Method (startsWith): Similar to the search method, startsWith uses _search_prefix. If we can traverse all the characters of the prefix in the trie, it means a word with that prefix exists, regardless of the is_end value.

5. Searching Prefix (_search_prefix): This is an internal method that traverses the tree according to the given prefix or word. If any character is not found, it immediately returns None. If the traversal is completed, it returns the last node accessed, which represents the final character in the prefix or word.


## Solution in cpp
```
struct TrieNode {
  vector<shared_ptr<TrieNode>> children;
  bool isWord = false;
  TrieNode() : children(26) {}
};

class Trie {
 public:
  void insert(const string& word) {
    shared_ptr<TrieNode> node = root;
    for (const char c : word) {
      const int i = c - 'a';
      if (node->children[i] == nullptr)
        node->children[i] = make_shared<TrieNode>();
      node = node->children[i];
    }
    node->isWord = true;
  }

  bool search(const string& word) {
    shared_ptr<TrieNode> node = find(word);
    return node && node->isWord;
  }

  bool startsWith(const string& prefix) {
    return find(prefix) != nullptr;
  }

 private:
  shared_ptr<TrieNode> root = make_shared<TrieNode>();

  shared_ptr<TrieNode> find(const string& prefix) {
    shared_ptr<TrieNode> node = root;
    for (const char c : prefix) {
      const int i = c - 'a';
      if (node->children[i] == nullptr)
        return nullptr;
      node = node->children[i];
    }
    return node;
  }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class TrieNode:
  def __init__(self):
    self.children: dict[str, TrieNode] = {}
    self.isWord = False


class Trie:
  def __init__(self):
    self.root = TrieNode()

  def insert(self, word: str) -> None:
    node: TrieNode = self.root
    for c in word:
      node = node.children.setdefault(c, TrieNode())
    node.isWord = True

  def search(self, word: str) -> bool:
    node: TrieNode = self._find(word)
    return node and node.isWord

  def startsWith(self, prefix: str) -> bool:
    return self._find(prefix)

  def _find(self, prefix: str) -> TrieNode | None:
    node: TrieNode = self.root
    for c in prefix:
      if c not in node.children:
        return None
      node = node.children[c]
    return node
```	

Time Complexity: 
insert O(n) -> n is the length of the word. <br>
search O(n) -> n is the length of the word. <br>
startswith O(m) -> m is the length of the prefix length. <br>
_search_prefix O(p) -> p is the length of the prefix. <br>
Space Complexity: O(k * l), k is the max number of children and l is the avg length of the word. <br>