## [Search Suggestions System](https://leetcode.com/problems/search-suggestions-system/description/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/search-suggestions-system/description/ <br>
Complexity: Medium <br>
Tags: Trie, Sorting, Heap <br>


# Question

You are given an array of strings products and a string `searchWord`.

Design a system that suggests at most three product names from products after each character of searchWord is typed. Suggested products should have common prefix with searchWord. If there are more than three products with a common prefix return the three lexicographically minimums products.

Return a list of lists of the suggested products after each character of searchWord is typed.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: products = ["mobile","mouse","moneypot","monitor","mousepad"], searchWord = "mouse"
Output: [["mobile","moneypot","monitor"],["mobile","moneypot","monitor"],["mouse","mousepad"],["mouse","mousepad"],["mouse","mousepad"]]
Explanation: products sorted lexicographically = ["mobile","moneypot","monitor","mouse","mousepad"].
After typing m and mo all products match and we show user ["mobile","moneypot","monitor"].
After typing mou, mous and mouse the system suggests ["mouse","mousepad"].

Example 2:

Input: products = ["havana"], searchWord = "havana"
Output: [["havana"],["havana"],["havana"],["havana"],["havana"],["havana"]]
Explanation: The only word "havana" will be always suggested while typing the search word.

## Explanation

1. Sorting the products: Our first step is to sort the list of products because this guarantees that any traversal in alphabetical order will satisfy the lexicographical requirement.

2. Building the Trie:
  We create a trie and insert each product into it.
  As we insert each product, we keep track of the product index within the trie nodes (by appending the index to the node's value list) so we can later access them in sorted order.
  We limit the number of indices in the value list to three because only three suggestions are needed at max for each prefix.

3. Performing the Search:
  Now, for each character typed into the searchWord, we will traverse the trie.
  If we find that there's no child node corresponding to the character, we break out of the loop since no product with such a prefix exists.
  Otherwise, we collect the indices (up to three) at every node that corresponds to the prefix made by the typed characters of searchWord so far.
  This gives us a list of lists of indices of product suggestions after each character of searchWord.

4. Generating the Result:
  Finally, we map the collected product indices to their respective strings.
  We do this by looking up each index in the sorted products array and returning the word at that index.

## Algorithm

1. Tri-Node Definition:

  A Tri-node, represented by the class, contains two main attributes: children (an array that holds up to 26 child nodes, representing each letter of the alphabet) and v (a list that will store indices of products up to three for the nodes relevant to the search).
  The children array is initialized with None, indicating that initially, there are no child nodes.

2. Inserting Products into Trie:

  The insert method is used to add products into the trie.
  Each product is inserted character-by-character. For each character, the corresponding child node is either found or created.
  As we traverse through or create nodes for each character, we add the index of the product (coming from the enumeration of the sorted products list) into the v list of the node, ensuring we do not exceed three products.

3. Searching the Trie:
  The search method is used to retrieve the list of product indices as per the characters of the searchWord.
  It initializes an answer list ans of lists to store product indices for each character.
  For each character in searchWord, the corresponding child index is calculated, and the traversal proceeds to the child if it exists.
  If there is no such child, the autocomplete cannot proceed any further, and the loop breaks, leaving the remaining lists in ans empty.
  For each existing node found via traversal, we collect up to three product indices represented by the node's v list and append it to ans.

4. Constructing the Output:
  The Solution class has a method called suggestedProducts, which puts the aforementioned class to use.
  Initially, the list of products is sorted, which is a critical step to ensure that the indices stored in the trie's nodes will correspond to lexicographically sorted words.
  For each product, it calls insert, passing the product and its index.
  It then retrieves the list of suggestion indices for each character of the searchWord.

5. Returning Product Suggestions:
  Finally, the list of suggestion indices is converted to the actual product strings. This is done using a list comprehension, which, for every list of product indices (v) resulted from the trie search, retrieves the product string from the sorted products list.
  The outer list comprehension is what generates the list of lists of product names, corresponding to each character of searchWord.

## Solution in cpp
```
struct TrieNode {
  vector<shared_ptr<TrieNode>> children;
  const string* word = nullptr;
  TrieNode() : children(26) {}
};

class Solution {
 public:
  vector<vector<string>> suggestedProducts(vector<string>& products,
                                           string searchWord) {
    vector<vector<string>> ans;

    for (const string& product : products)
      insert(product);

    shared_ptr<TrieNode> node = root;

    for (const char c : searchWord) {
      if (node == nullptr || node->children[c - 'a'] == nullptr) {
        node = nullptr;
        ans.push_back({});
        continue;
      }
      node = node->children[c - 'a'];
      ans.push_back(search(node));
    }

    return ans;
  }

 private:
  shared_ptr<TrieNode> root = make_shared<TrieNode>();

  void insert(const string& word) {
    shared_ptr<TrieNode> node = root;
    for (const char c : word) {
      const int i = c - 'a';
      if (node->children[i] == nullptr)
        node->children[i] = make_shared<TrieNode>();
      node = node->children[i];
    }
    node->word = &word;
  }

  vector<string> search(shared_ptr<TrieNode> node) {
    vector<string> res;
    dfs(node, res);
    return res;
  }

  void dfs(shared_ptr<TrieNode> node, vector<string>& ans) {
    if (ans.size() == 3)
      return;
    if (node == nullptr)
      return;
    if (node->word != nullptr)
      ans.push_back(*node->word);
    for (shared_ptr<TrieNode> child : node->children)
      dfs(child, ans);
  }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class TrieNode:
  def __init__(self):
    self.children: dict[str, TrieNode] = {}
    self.word: str | None = None


class Solution:
  def suggestedProducts(self, products: list[str],
                        searchWord: str) -> list[list[str]]:
    ans = []
    root = TrieNode()

    def insert(word: str) -> None:
      node = root
      for c in word:
        node = node.children.setdefault(c, TrieNode())
      node.word = word

    def search(node: TrieNode | None) -> list[str]:
      res: list[str] = []
      dfs(node, res)
      return res

    def dfs(node: TrieNode | None, res: list[str]) -> None:
      if len(res) == 3:
        return
      if not node:
        return
      if node.word:
        res.append(node.word)
      for c in string.ascii_lowercase:
        if c in node.children:
          dfs(node.children[c], res)

    for product in products:
      insert(product)

    node = root

    for c in searchWord:
      if not node or c not in node.children:
        node = None
        ans.append([])
        continue
      node = node.children[c]
      ans.append(search(node))

    return ans
```	

Time Complexity: O(N * L * log(N)) <br>
Space Complexity: O(n*l) 