## [Greatest Common Divisor of Strings](https://leetcode.com/problems/greatest-common-divisor-of-strings/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/greatest-common-divisor-of-strings/description/
Complexity: Easy 
Tags: Arrays, Strings

# Question

For two strings  `s`  and  `t`, we say "`t`  divides  `s`" if and only if  `s = t + t + t + ... + t + t`  (i.e.,  `t`  is concatenated with itself one or more times).

Given two strings  `str1`  and  `str2`, return  _the largest string_ `x` _such that_ `x` _divides both_ `str1` _and_ `str2`.


# Examples

    Input: str1 = "ABCABC", str2 = "ABC"
	Output: "ABC"
	Input: str1 = "ABABAB", str2 = "ABAB"
	Output: "AB"
    
## Explanation

The key insight is that if there exists such a common string x that divides both str1 and str2, then the concatenation of str1 with str2 (str1 + str2) should be the same as the concatenation of str2 with str1 (str2 + str1). If this condition doesn't hold, it implies there is no such common string and the answer is an empty string.


Assuming the condition is true, we can find the length of the largest string x using the greatest common divisor of the lengths of str1 and str2. This is because the repeating pattern of string x must be a factor of both string lengths in order for it to divide both strings completely. Therefore, we find the GCD of the lengths of str1 and str2 and then return the substring of str1 up to that length. This substring is the largest common divider x.

## Algorithm

1. Check for Compatibility: If str1 + str2 != str2 + str1, there is no common GCD, just return empty string.
2. Find Length of the Common Divisor: Find the greatest common divisor of the lengths of both strings. 
3. Extract the Common Divisor String: If GCD is x, return the first x characters from string 1. Remember, s = t + t + t, so, size of t will be GCD of both string sizes.

## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
 public:
  string gcdOfStrings(string str1, string str2) {
    if (str1 + str2 != str2 + str1) {
		return "";
	}
	int gcdValue = std::gcd(str1.size(), str2.size());
	return str1.substr(0, gcdValue);
  }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def gcdOfStrings(self, str1: str, str2: str) -> str:
	if str1 + str2 != str2 + str1:
		return ''
	length_gcd = gcd(len(str1), len(str2))
	return str1[:length_gcd]
```

Time Complexity: O(m+n) -> We are iterating through both string sizes.
Space complexity: O(m+n) -> We will creating an extra space to store sum of strings. 