## [Kids With the Greatest Number of Candies](https://leetcode.com/problems/kids-with-the-greatest-number-of-candies/)


Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/kids-with-the-greatest-number-of-candies/description/
Complexity: Easy 
Tags: Arrays, 


# Question

There are  `n`  kids with candies. You are given an integer array  `candies`, where each  `candies[i]`  represents the number of candies the  `ith`  kid has, and an integer  `extraCandies`, denoting the number of extra candies that you have.

Return  _a boolean array_ `result` _of length_ `n`_, where_ `result[i]` _is_ `true` _if, after giving the_ `ith` _kid all the_ `extraCandies`_, they will have the  **greatest**  number of candies among all the kids__, or_ `false` _otherwise_.

Note that  **multiple**  kids can have the  **greatest**  number of candies.


# Examples

    Input: candies = [2,3,5,1,3], extraCandies = 3
    Output: [true,true,true,false,true] 
    Explanation: If you give all extraCandies to:
    - Kid 1, they will have 2 + 3 = 5 candies, which is the greatest among the kids.
    - Kid 2, they will have 3 + 3 = 6 candies, which is the greatest among the kids.
    - Kid 3, they will have 5 + 3 = 8 candies, which is the greatest among the kids.
    - Kid 4, they will have 1 + 3 = 4 candies, which is not the greatest among the kids.
    - Kid 5, they will have 3 + 3 = 6 candies, which is the greatest among the kids.
    
    Input: candies = [4,2,1,1,2], extraCandies = 1
    Output: [true,false,false,false,false] 
    Explanation:	 There is only 1 extra candy.
    Kid 1 will always have the greatest number of candies, even if a different kid is given the extra candy.

## Explanation

We find the maximum number in the array and then loop through the input array to find if the kid has maximum number of candies.

## Algorithm

1. Find the max element in the array.
2. Initialize new bool array of input size
3. Loop through the array, check if current candies plus extra candies is greater or equal 
4. If yes, set bool array to true else false
5. Return boolen array. 

## Solution in cpp
```
class  Solution {
public:
    vector<bool> kidsWithCandies(vector<int>&  candies, int  extraCandies) {
        // Find the max number of candies in the vector.
        int mx = *max_element(candies.begin(), candies.end());
        // Initialize a vector of booleans with same as input vector.
        vector<bool> res(candies.size());
        // Loop through the input vector. 
        for (int candy : candies) {
            res.push_back((candy + extraCandies) >= mx);
        }
    return res;
}
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def kidsWithCandies(
      self,
      candies: list[int],
      extraCandies: int,
  ) -> list[bool]:
    maxCandy = max(candies)
    return [candy + extraCandies >= maxCandy for candy in candies]
```

Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete array
Space complexity: O(n) -> creating size n array to store result. 	