## [Can Place Flowers](https://leetcode.com/problems/can-place-flowers/)


Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/can-place-flowers/description/ <br>
Complexity: Easy  <br>
Tags: Arrays <br>


# Question

You have a long flowerbed in which some of the plots are planted, and some are not. However, flowers cannot be planted in adjacent plots.

Given an integer array flowerbed containing `0's` and `1's`, where 0 means empty and 1 means not empty, and an integer `n`, return `true` if n new flowers can be planted in the flowerbed without violating the no-adjacent-flowers rule and `false` otherwise.


# Examples

Example 1:

Input: flowerbed = [1,0,0,0,1], n = 1
Output: true

Example 2:

Input: flowerbed = [1,0,0,0,1], n = 2
Output: false

## Explanation

The key to solving this problem is understanding that you can plant a flower in the current empty plot (i) only if both the preceding (i - 1) and following (i + 1) plots are also empty. This check ensures that no adjacent flowers rule is not violated.

Knowing this, we iterate through the flowerbed, and when we find an empty plot with empty adjacent plots, we plant a flower there by setting the current plot to 1 and decrementing n. To simplify the edge cases for the first and last plots in the flowerbed (which only have one neighbor), we can add a 0 at the start and end of the flowerbed array.


## Algorithm

1. At each plot (now index i), we check the value of the current plot as well as its immediate neighbors. 
2. We calculate the sum of the current plot and its neighbors: sum(flowerbed[i - 1 : i + 2]). 
3. If this sum is 0, it means all three consecutive plots (i - 1, i, and i + 1) are empty. 
4. In this case, we can safely plant a flower at the current position (i) by setting flowerbed[i] to 1 and decrementing n by 1 (representing planting one flower).
5. This loop continues till all the plots have been checked. If by the conclusion of the loop, n is less or equal to 0, it signifies that we have managed to plant all required n flowers in accordance with the rules, hence we return true. 
6. If n is still greater than 0, it implies that there wasn't enough space to plant all flowers while maintaining the non-adjacent condition, thus we return false.


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    bool canPlaceFlowers(vector<int>& flowerbed, int n) {
        int m = flowerbed.size();
        for (int i = 0; i < m; ++i) {
            int l = i == 0 ? 0 : flowerbed[i - 1];
            int r = i == m - 1 ? 0 : flowerbed[i + 1];
            if (l + flowerbed[i] + r == 0) {
                flowerbed[i] = 1;
                --n;
            }
        }
        return n <= 0;      
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def canPlaceFlowers(self, flowerbed: list[int], n: int) -> bool:
    for i, flower in enumerate(flowerbed):
      if flower == 0 and (
              i == 0 or flowerbed[i - 1] == 0) and (
              i == len(flowerbed) - 1 or flowerbed[i + 1] == 0):
        flowerbed[i] = 1
        n -= 1
      if n <= 0:
        return True

    return False
```
Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete array <br>
Space complexity: O(n) -> creating size n array to store result. 	