## [Find Pivot Index](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-pivot-index/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/find-pivot-index/ <br>
Complexity: Easy <br>
Tags: Arrays Prefix sum <br>


# Question

Given an array of integers `nums`, calculate the pivot index of this array.

The pivot index is the index where the sum of all the numbers strictly to the left of the index is equal to the sum of all the numbers strictly to the index's right.

If the index is on the left edge of the array, then the left sum is 0 because there are no elements to the left. This also applies to the right edge of the array.

Return the leftmost pivot index. If no such index exists, return -1.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: nums = [1,7,3,6,5,6]
Output: 3
Explanation:
The pivot index is 3.
Left sum = nums[0] + nums[1] + nums[2] = 1 + 7 + 3 = 11
Right sum = nums[4] + nums[5] = 5 + 6 = 11

Example 2:

Input: nums = [1,2,3]
Output: -1
Explanation:
There is no index that satisfies the conditions in the problem statement.

Example 3:

Input: nums = [2,1,-1]
Output: 0
Explanation:
The pivot index is 0.
Left sum = 0 (no elements to the left of index 0)
Right sum = nums[1] + nums[2] = 1 + -1 = 0

## Explanation

To solve this problem, we need to track the sums of the numbers to the left and to the right of each index. An initial idea might be to calculate the sum of all numbers to the left and all those to the right for each index in the array. 

As we iterate over each element with the index i, we do the following:

Subtract the current element's value from right because we're essentially moving our 'pivot point' one step to the right, so everything that was once to the right is now either the pivot or to its left except the current element.

Check if the current sums to the left and to the right of i (not including i) are equal. If they are, i is our pivot index.

If they're not equal, we add the current element's value to left because if we continue to the next element, our 'pivot point' will have moved, and the current element will now be considered part of the left sum.

## Algorithm

1. First calculate the sum of all numbers to the left(index 0) and numbers to the right(index n-1).
2. Loop through the array and subtract the element from the right sum.
3. Check if the left sum and right sum are equal. If true, we got the index, return the index.
4. Add the element to the left sum.
5. If we reach end of the array, return false, we dont have a pivot index.

## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    int pivotIndex(vector<int>& nums) {
        int left = 0, right = accumulate(nums.begin(), nums.end(), 0);
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.size(); ++i) {
            right -= nums[i];
            if (left == right) {
                return i;
            }
            left += nums[i];
        }
        return -1;
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def pivotIndex(self, nums: list[int]) -> int:
    summ = sum(nums)
    prefix = 0

    for i, num in enumerate(nums):
      if prefix == summ - prefix - num:
        return i
      prefix += num

    return -1
```
Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete array. <br>
Space complexity: O(1) -> we are not creating any extra space. 	
