## [Letter Combinations of a Phone Number](https://leetcode.com/problems/letter-combinations-of-a-phone-number/description/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/letter-combinations-of-a-phone-number/description/ <br>
Complexity: Medium <br>
Tags: backtracking, String <br>


# Question

Given a string containing digits from `2-9` inclusive, return all possible letter combinations that the number could represent. Return the answer in any order.

A mapping of digits to letters (just like on the telephone buttons) is given below. Note that 1 does not map to any letters.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: digits = "23"
Output: ["ad","ae","af","bd","be","bf","cd","ce","cf"]

Example 2:

Input: digits = ""
Output: []

Example 3:

Input: digits = "2"
Output: ["a","b","c"]

## Explanation

We can solve the problem using a form of backtracking—generating all the possible combinations by traversing over the input digits and mapping them to the corresponding letters. We start with an initial list containing just an empty string, which represents the starting point of our combination. For each digit in the input string, we look up the corresponding string of characters it can represent and then generate new combinations by appending each of these letters to each of the combinations we have so far.

The solution uses a bread-first search-like approach (without using a queue). Initially, since we only have one combination (an empty string), for the first digit, we will generate as many new combinations as there are letters corresponding to that digit. For each subsequent digit, we take all the combinations generated so far and expand each by the number of letters corresponding to the current digit. This process is repeated until we have processed all digits in the input. 

## Algorithm

1. Initialize a list d with strings representing the characters for each digit from '2' to '9'. For example, d[0] is 'abc' for the digit '2', d[1] is 'def' for the digit '3', and so on.

2. Start with a list ans containing an empty string. The empty string serves as a starting point for building the combinations.

3. Loop through each digit in the given digits string.
  Convert the digit to an integer and subtract 2 to find the corresponding index in the list d (since the list d starts with the letters for '2').
  Retrieve the string s representing the possible characters for that digit.
  Generate new combinations by taking every element a in ans and concatenating it with each letter b in the string s. This is done using a list comprehension: [a + b for a in ans for b in s].
  Replace ans with the newly generated list of combinations.

4. After the loop finishes, ans contains all of the letter combinations that the input number can represent, and the function returns ans.

## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
 public:
  vector<string> letterCombinations(string digits) {
    if (digits.empty())
      return {};

    vector<string> ans;

    dfs(digits, 0, "", ans);
    return ans;
  }

 private:
  const vector<string> digitToLetters{"",    "",    "abc",  "def", "ghi",
                                      "jkl", "mno", "pqrs", "tuv", "wxyz"};

  void dfs(const string& digits, int i, string&& path, vector<string>& ans) {
    if (i == digits.length()) {
      ans.push_back(path);
      return;
    }

    for (const char letter : digitToLetters[digits[i] - '0']) {
      path.push_back(letter);
      dfs(digits, i + 1, std::move(path), ans);
      path.pop_back();
    }
  }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def letterCombinations(self, digits: str) -> list[str]:
    if not digits:
      return []

    digitToLetters = ['', '', 'abc', 'def', 'ghi',
                      'jkl', 'mno', 'pqrs', 'tuv', 'wxyz']
    ans = []

    def dfs(i: int, path: list[str]) -> None:
      if i == len(digits):
        ans.append(''.join(path))
        return

      for letter in digitToLetters[int(digits[i])]:
        path.append(letter)
        dfs(i + 1, path)
        path.pop()

    dfs(0, [])
    return ans
```	

Time Complexity: O(4^n) 4 is the max number of characters per number. <br>
Space Complexity: O(4^n) We save all the combinations. 