## [Combination Sum III](https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum-iii/description/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/combination-sum-iii/description/ <br>
Complexity: Medium <br>
Tags: Arrays, Backtracking <br>


# Question

Find all valid combinations of k numbers that sum up to n such that the following conditions are true:

Only numbers 1 through 9 are used.
Each number is used at most once.
Return a list of all possible valid combinations. The list must not contain the same combination twice, and the combinations may be returned in any order.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: k = 3, n = 7
Output: [[1,2,4]]
Explanation:
1 + 2 + 4 = 7
There are no other valid combinations.

Example 2:

Input: k = 3, n = 9
Output: [[1,2,6],[1,3,5],[2,3,4]]
Explanation:
1 + 2 + 6 = 9
1 + 3 + 5 = 9
2 + 3 + 4 = 9
There are no other valid combinations.

Example 3:

Input: k = 4, n = 1
Output: []
Explanation: There are no valid combinations.
Using 4 different numbers in the range [1,9], the smallest sum we can get is 1+2+3+4 = 10 and since 10 > 1, there are no valid combination.

## Explanation

To find the solution, we can utilize a Depth First Search (DFS) algorithm. DFS will help us explore all possible combinations of numbers recursively while adhering to the constraints.

## Algorithm

1. We begin by considering numbers from 1 to 9 and use each of them as a starting point of a combination.
2. To build a combination, we add a number to the current combination (t in the given code) and recursively call the DFS function to add the next number.
  While adding the new number, we have three conditions to check:
    We must not exceed the target sum n.
    We should not use more than k numbers.
    We cannot use numbers greater than 9.
3. If the sum of numbers in the current combination equals n and we have used exactly k numbers, then we found a valid combination which we add to the answer list (ans).
4. After exploring a number's inclusion, we backtrack by removing the number from the current combination and exploring the possibility of not including that number.
5. Through this process of including and excluding each number, and backtracking after exploring each possibility, we ensure that all valid combinations are found.
6. Each combination is built up incrementally from the smaller numbers towards the larger ones to avoid repeated combinations and maintain uniqueness.

## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
 public:
  vector<vector<int>> combinationSum3(int k, int n) {
    vector<vector<int>> ans;
    dfs(k, n, 1, {}, ans);
    return ans;
  }

 private:
  void dfs(int k, int n, int s, vector<int>&& path, vector<vector<int>>& ans) {
    if (k == 0 && n == 0) {
      ans.push_back(path);
      return;
    }
    if (k == 0 || n <= 0)
      return;

    for (int i = s; i <= 9; ++i) {
      path.push_back(i);
      dfs(k - 1, n - i, i + 1, std::move(path), ans);
      path.pop_back();
    }
  }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def combinationSum3(self, k: int, n: int) -> list[list[int]]:
    ans = []

    def dfs(k: int, n: int, s: int, path: list[int]) -> None:
      if k == 0 and n == 0:
        ans.append(path)
        return
      if k == 0 or n < 0:
        return

      for i in range(s, 10):
        dfs(k - 1, n - i, i + 1, path + [i])

    dfs(k, n, 1, [])
    return ans
```	

Time Complexity:
Space Complexity: