## [Delete the Middle Node of a Linked List](https://leetcode.com/problems/delete-the-middle-node-of-a-linked-list/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/delete-the-middle-node-of-a-linked-list/ <br>
Complexity: Medium  <br>
Tags: Linked List, Two Pointers <br>


# Question

You are given the head of a linked list. Delete the middle node, and return the head of the modified linked list.

The middle node of a linked list of size n is the `⌊n / 2⌋th node` from the start using 0-based indexing, where ⌊x⌋ denotes the largest integer less than or equal to x.

For n = 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, the middle nodes are 0, 1, 1, 2, and 2, respectively.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: head = [1,3,4,7,1,2,6]
Output: [1,3,4,1,2,6]
Explanation:
The above figure represents the given linked list. The indices of the nodes are written below.
Since n = 7, node 3 with value 7 is the middle node, which is marked in red.
We return the new list after removing this node. 

Example 2:

Input: head = [1,2,3,4]
Output: [1,2,4]
Explanation:
The above figure represents the given linked list.
For n = 4, node 2 with value 3 is the middle node, which is marked in red.

Example 3:

Input: head = [2,1]
Output: [2]
Explanation:
The above figure represents the given linked list.
For n = 2, node 1 with value 1 is the middle node, which is marked in red.
Node 0 with value 2 is the only node remaining after removing node 1.
 

## Explanation

The idea is to have two pointers, slow and fast. The slow pointer moves one step at a time, while the fast pointer moves two steps at a time. By the time the fast pointer reaches the end of the list, the slow pointer will be at the middle node.

## Algorithm

1. Initialize a dummy node that points to the head. This dummy node will help us easily handle edge cases like when there's only one node in the list.
2. Start both slow and fast pointers. The slow pointer will start from the dummy node, while fast will start from the head node of the list. 
3. Move slow one step and fast two steps until fast reaches the end of the list or has no next node (this is for cases when the number of nodes is even). 
4. When the fast pointer reaches the end of the list, the slow pointer will be on the node just before the middle node (since it started from dummy, which is before the head).
5. Adjust the next pointer of the slow node so that it skips over the middle node, effectively removing it from the list.
6. Return the new head of the list, which is pointed to by dummy.next, since the dummy node was added before the original head.


## Solution in cpp

```
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * struct ListNode {
 *     int val;
 *     ListNode *next;
 *     ListNode() : val(0), next(nullptr) {}
 *     ListNode(int x) : val(x), next(nullptr) {}
 *     ListNode(int x, ListNode *next) : val(x), next(next) {}
 * };
 */
class Solution {
public:
    ListNode* deleteMiddle(ListNode* head) {
        ListNode* dummy = new ListNode(0, head);
        ListNode* slow = dummy;
        ListNode* fast = head;
        while (fast && fast->next) {
            slow = slow->next;
            fast = fast->next->next;
        }
        ListNode *del = slow->next;
        slow->next = slow->next->next;
        delete del;
        // return head
        return dummy->next;   
    }
};
```

## Solution in python

```
class Solution:
  def deleteMiddle(self, head: ListNode | None) -> ListNode | None:
    dummy = ListNode(0, head)
    slow = dummy
    fast = dummy

    while fast.next and fast.next.next:
      slow = slow.next
      fast = fast.next.next

    # Delete the middle node.
    slow.next = slow.next.next
    return dummy.next
```

Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete list from starting. <br>
Space complexity: O(1) -> We are not creating any extra space.
