## [Reverse Linked List](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-linked-list/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-linked-list/ <br>
Complexity: Easy <br>
Tags: Linked List <br>


# Question

Given the head of a singly linked list, reverse the list, and return the reversed list.

 
# Examples

Example 1:

Input: head = [1,2,3,4,5]
Output: [5,4,3,2,1]

Example 2:

Input: head = [1,2]
Output: [2,1]

Example 3:

Input: head = []
Output: []
 

## Explanation

We need three pointers to reverse a list, GFG has the best explantion with animation.

https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/reverse-a-linked-list/

## Algorithm

1. A new ListNode called dummy is created, which acts as the placeholder before the new reversed list's head.
2. A pointer called curr is initialized to point to the head of the original list. This pointer is used to iterate over the list. 
3. The iteration starts with a while loop which continues as long as curr is not null. This ensures we process all nodes in the list. 
4. Inside the loop, next temporarily stores curr.next, which is the pointer to the next node in the original list. This is crucial since we are going to change curr.next to point to the new list and we don't want to lose the reference to the rest of the original list.
5. We then set curr.next to point to dummy.next. Since dummy.next represents the start of the new list, or null in the first iteration, the current node now points to the head of the reversed list. 
6. dummy.next is updated to curr to move the starting point of the reversed list to the current node. At this point, curr is effectively inserted at the beginning of the new reversed list.
7. curr is updated to next to move to the next node in the original list, using the pointer we saved earlier.
8. Once all nodes have been processed and the loop exits, dummy.next will be the head of the new reversed list.
9. The new reversed list referenced by dummy.next is returned.


## Solution in cpp
```
/**
 * Definition for singly-linked list.
 * struct ListNode {
 *     int val;
 *     ListNode *next;
 *     ListNode() : val(0), next(nullptr) {}
 *     ListNode(int x) : val(x), next(nullptr) {}
 *     ListNode(int x, ListNode *next) : val(x), next(next) {}
 * };
 */
class Solution {
public:
    ListNode* reverseList(ListNode* head) {
       // safe to handle edge cases.
        ListNode* dummy = new ListNode();
        ListNode* curr = head;
        while (curr) {
            ListNode* next = curr->next;
            curr->next = dummy->next;
            dummy->next = curr;
            curr = next;
        }
        return dummy->next;
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def reverseList(self, head: ListNode | None) -> ListNode | None:
    prev = None
    curr = head

    while curr:
      next = curr.next
      curr.next = prev
      prev = curr
      curr = next

    return prev
```
Time Complexity: O(n) -> looping through the complete array from both ends. <br>
Space complexity: O(1) -> we are not creating any extra space. 	
