## [Find the Difference of Two Arrays](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-difference-of-two-arrays/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-difference-of-two-arrays <br>
Complexity: Easy <br>
Tags: Arrays, HashTable <br>


# Question

Given two 0-indexed integer arrays `nums1` and `nums2`, return a list answer of size 2 where:

answer[0] is a list of all distinct integers in nums1 which are not present in nums2.
answer[1] is a list of all distinct integers in nums2 which are not present in nums1.
Note that the integers in the lists may be returned in any order.


# Examples

Example 1:

Input: nums1 = [1,2,3], nums2 = [2,4,6]
Output: [[1,3],[4,6]]
Explanation:
For nums1, nums1[1] = 2 is present at index 0 of nums2, whereas nums1[0] = 1 and nums1[2] = 3 are not present in nums2. Therefore, answer[0] = [1,3].
For nums2, nums2[0] = 2 is present at index 1 of nums1, whereas nums2[1] = 4 and nums2[2] = 6 are not present in nums2. Therefore, answer[1] = [4,6].

Example 2:

Input: nums1 = [1,2,3,3], nums2 = [1,1,2,2]
Output: [[3],[]]
Explanation:
For nums1, nums1[2] and nums1[3] are not present in nums2. Since nums1[2] == nums1[3], their value is only included once and answer[0] = [3].
Every integer in nums2 is present in nums1. Therefore, answer[1] = [].

## Explanation

we start by understanding the requirement for unique elements that are present in one array but not the other. This naturally leads us to think of set operations because sets automatically handle uniqueness and provide efficient operations for difference and intersection.

The intuitive approach is to:

Convert both nums1 and nums2 into sets to eliminate any repeated numbers within each array.
Use set subtraction (-) to find elements that are in one set but not the other.

## Algorithm

1. Create two sets from the given two lists. 
2. Loop through one set and check for the element in another set,  
3. If it doesnt contain the element, then add it to a vector list. 
4. Repeat the same for other set and add it to the vector.
5. Return the vector list. 


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    vector<vector<int>> findDifference(vector<int>& nums1, vector<int>& nums2) {
        unordered_set<int> s1(nums1.begin(), nums1.end());
        unordered_set<int> s2(nums2.begin(), nums2.end());
        vector<vector<int>> ans(2);
        for (int v : s1) {
            if (!s2.contains(v)) {
                ans[0].push_back(v);
            }
        }
        for (int v : s2) {
            if (!s1.contains(v)) {
                ans[1].push_back(v);
            }
        }
        return ans;        
    }
};
```

## Solution in python
```
class Solution:
  def findDifference(self, nums1: list[int],
                     nums2: list[int]) -> list[list[int]]:
    set1 = set(nums1)
    set2 = set(nums2)
    return [set1 - set2, set2 - set1]
```
Time Complexity: O(n+m) -> looping through both the arrays and inserting the elements. <br>
Space complexity: O(n+m) -> In worst case, we are creating any extra space of both lists.	
