## [Unique Number of Occurrences](https://leetcode.com/problems/unique-number-of-occurrences/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/unique-number-of-occurrences/
Complexity: Easy 
Tags: Arrays, HashTable


# Question

Given an array of integers arr, return true if the number of occurrences of each value in the array is unique or false otherwise.


# Examples

Example 1:

Input: arr = [1,2,2,1,1,3]
Output: true
Explanation: The value 1 has 3 occurrences, 2 has 2 and 3 has 1. No two values have the same number of occurrences.
Example 2:

Input: arr = [1,2]
Output: false
Example 3:

Input: arr = [-3,0,1,-3,1,1,1,-3,10,0]
Output: true

## Explanation

To solve this problem, we can follow these steps:

Count the occurrences of each value in the array.
Check if the counts are all unique.

Once we have the counts, we need to check if they are unique. We can convert the counts into a set, which only contains unique elements. If the length of the set of counts (unique frequencies) is equal to the length of the original dictionary of counts, then all frequencies were unique, and we can return true. Otherwise, we return false.

## Algorithm

1. Create a map that has key as the list element and values as the frequency.  
2. For each value of the map, add them to a set. 
3. If the value is already present, the list is not unique, return false. 
4. If we are able to add all the values in the map, then the list is unique, return true.


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    bool uniqueOccurrences(vector<int>& arr) {
        unordered_map<int, int> cnt;
        for (int& x : arr) {
            ++cnt[x];
        }
        unordered_set<int> vis;
        for (auto& [_, v] : cnt) {
            if (vis.count(v)) {
                return false;
            }
            vis.insert(v);
        }
        return true;    
    }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def uniqueOccurrences(self, arr: list[int]) -> bool:
    count = collections.Counter(arr)
    occurrences = set()

    for value in count.values():
      if value in occurrences:
        return False
      occurrences.add(value)

    return True
```

Time Complexity: O(n) -> Loop through the list twice. so, o(n)
Space complexity: O(n) -> we are creating extra map and set with list items.
