## [Determine if Two Strings Are Close](https://leetcode.com/problems/determine-if-two-strings-are-close/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/determine-if-two-strings-are-close/
Complexity: Medium 
Tags: Arrays, hash Table, Sorting, String


# Question

Two strings are considered close if you can attain one from the other using the following operations:

Operation 1: Swap any two existing characters.
For example, abcde -> aecdb
Operation 2: Transform every occurrence of one existing character into another existing character, and do the same with the other character.
For example, aacabb -> bbcbaa (all a's turn into b's, and all b's turn into a's)
You can use the operations on either string as many times as necessary.

Given two strings, word1 and word2, return true if word1 and word2 are close, and false otherwise.


# Examples

Example 1:

Input: word1 = "abc", word2 = "bca"
Output: true
Explanation: You can attain word2 from word1 in 2 operations.
Apply Operation 1: "abc" -> "acb"
Apply Operation 1: "acb" -> "bca"
Example 2:

Input: word1 = "a", word2 = "aa"
Output: false
Explanation: It is impossible to attain word2 from word1, or vice versa, in any number of operations.
Example 3:

Input: word1 = "cabbba", word2 = "abbccc"
Output: true
Explanation: You can attain word2 from word1 in 3 operations.
Apply Operation 1: "cabbba" -> "caabbb"
Apply Operation 2: "caabbb" -> "baaccc"
Apply Operation 2: "baaccc" -> "abbccc"


## Explanation

The crucial realization is that operation 1 allows us to reorder characters in any fashion, making the relative order of characters inconsequential. Operation 2 allows us to transform characters into each other, given that both characters exist in both strings. The consequence of this is:

Both word1 and word2 must contain the same unique characters - they must have the same set of keys in their character counts (Counter).
Both word1 and word2 must have the same character frequencies, which implies, after sorting their frequency counts, these should match.

If both the sorted values of the counts and the sets of unique characters match, we return true. Otherwise, we return false.

## Algorithm

1. From the given two lists, update the character frequncies in a array. 
2. The both array should be identical, if not return true.
8. Sort the strings, they should be identical too.


## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
public:
    bool closeStrings(string word1, string word2) {
         int cnt1[26]{};
        int cnt2[26]{};
        for (char& c : word1) {
            ++cnt1[c - 'a'];
        }
        for (char& c : word2) {
            ++cnt2[c - 'a'];
        }
        for (int i = 0; i < 26; ++i) {
            if ((cnt1[i] == 0) != (cnt2[i] == 0)) {
                return false;
            }
        }
        sort(cnt1, cnt1 + 26);
        sort(cnt2, cnt2 + 26);
        return equal(cnt1, cnt1 + 26, cnt2);       
    }
};
```

## SOlution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def closeStrings(self, word1: str, word2: str) -> bool:
    if len(word1) != len(word2):
      return False

    count1 = collections.Counter(word1)
    count2 = collections.Counter(word2)
    if count1.keys() != count2.keys():
      return False

    return sorted(count1.values()) == sorted(count2.values())
```

Time Complexity: O(n+m) -> looping through the complete list.
Space complexity: O(n+m) -> We are creating extra space w.r.t elements in array. 	
