## [N-th Tribonacci Number](https://leetcode.com/problems/n-th-tribonacci-number/description/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/n-th-tribonacci-number/description/ <br>
Complexity: Medium <br>
Tags: Arrays, DP <br>


# Question

The Tribonacci sequence Tn is defined as follows: 

T0 = 0, T1 = 1, T2 = 1, and Tn+3 = Tn + Tn+1 + Tn+2 for n >= 0.

Given n, return the value of Tn.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: n = 4
Output: 4
Explanation:
T_3 = 0 + 1 + 1 = 2
T_4 = 1 + 1 + 2 = 4

Example 2:

Input: n = 25
Output: 1389537

## Explanation

TBD.

## Algorithm

To calculate the Tribonacci number efficiently, the solution applies matrix exponentiation. Here is a step-by-step explanation of the implementation:

1. Base Cases: For n == 0, return 0. For n < 3 (which covers n == 1 or n == 2), return 1.

2. Transformation Matrix: The factor variable is defined as a 3x3 transformation matrix using numpy:
  Each multiplication of this matrix by a vector [T[n], T[n+1], T[n+2]] will result in [T[n+1], T[n+2], T[n+3]].

3. Result Vector: The res variable is defined as a 1x3 matrix to keep track of the current values of [T[n], T[n+1], T[n+2]]:
  Initially, it's set to represent [T[0], T[1], T[2]] (0, 1, 1) before the loop.

4. Exponentiation by Squaring: Before entering the loop, n is decremented by 3 as the initial res already accounts for the first three numbers. The loop then iterates, applying the following steps until n becomes 0:

  Conditional Multiplication: If the least significant bit of n is 1 (n & 1), res is multiplied by the factor matrix.
  Matrix Squaring: The factor matrix is squared which is equivalent to doubling the exponent.
  Right Shift: The bits of n are shifted to the right (n >>= 1) to process the next bit in the next iteration of the loop.

The loop effectively multiplies res by factor raised to the power of n, but it does so in logarithmic time relative to the value of n.

5. Final Sum: After the loop ends, the sum of the res array will contain the value of T[n], and this is returned as the final result:

## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
 public:
  int tribonacci(int n) {
    if (n < 2)
      return n;

    vector<int> dp{0, 1, 1};

    for (int i = 3; i <= n; ++i) {
      const int next = dp[0] + dp[1] + dp[2];
      dp[0] = dp[1];
      dp[1] = dp[2];
      dp[2] = next;
    }

    return dp[2];
  }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def tribonacci(self, n: int) -> int:
    if n < 2:
      return n

    dp = [0, 1, 1]

    for _ in range(3, n + 1):
      dp[0], dp[1], dp[2] = dp[1], dp[2], sum(dp)

    return dp[2]
```	
