## [House Robber](https://leetcode.com/problems/house-robber/description/)

Problem link: https://leetcode.com/problems/house-robber/description/ <br>
Complexity: Medium <br>
Tags: Arrays, DP <br>


# Question

You are a professional robber planning to rob houses along a street. Each house has a certain amount of money stashed, the only constraint stopping you from robbing each of them is that adjacent houses have security systems connected and it will automatically contact the police if two adjacent houses were broken into on the same night.

Given an integer array nums representing the amount of money of each house, return the maximum amount of money you can rob tonight without alerting the police.

# Examples

Example 1:

Input: nums = [1,2,3,1]
Output: 4
Explanation: Rob house 1 (money = 1) and then rob house 3 (money = 3).
Total amount you can rob = 1 + 3 = 4.
Example 2:

Input: nums = [2,7,9,3,1]
Output: 12
Explanation: Rob house 1 (money = 2), rob house 3 (money = 9) and rob house 5 (money = 1).
Total amount you can rob = 2 + 9 + 1 = 12.

## Explanation

The solution uses a dynamic programming approach, which is a method for solving complex problems by breaking them down into simpler subproblems. It computes solutions to these subproblems just once and stores their results—typically in an array—to avoid the need for redundant calculations. However, in this particular problem, we don't even need an array; we only use two variables to store the results since we move through the nums array sequentially and only require information from the previous step.

## Algorithm

TBD

## Solution in cpp
```
class Solution {
 public:
  int rob(vector<int>& nums) {
    if (nums.empty())
      return 0;
    if (nums.size() == 1)
      return nums[0];

    // dp[i] := the maximum money of robbing nums[0..i]
    vector<int> dp(nums.size());
    dp[0] = nums[0];
    dp[1] = max(nums[0], nums[1]);

    for (int i = 2; i < nums.size(); ++i)
      dp[i] = max(dp[i - 1], dp[i - 2] + nums[i]);

    return dp.back();
  }
};
```

## Solution in Python
```
class Solution:
  def rob(self, nums: list[int]) -> int:
    if not nums:
      return 0
    if len(nums) == 1:
      return nums[0]

    # dp[i]:= max money of robbing nums[0..i]
    dp = [0] * len(nums)
    dp[0] = nums[0]
    dp[1] = max(nums[0], nums[1])

    for i in range(2, len(nums)):
      dp[i] = max(dp[i - 1], dp[i - 2] + nums[i])

    return dp[-1]
```	
